14-00000
104-10104-10094
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199240
24 February 1907
i
MONCRANDOM
SUBJECT:
Estimate of Damage Which Could Accrue to CIA
Miami Through Prosecution of the Rolando
Masferrer Haitian Invasion Croup

1. The decision by the Justice Department to seek a
Grand Jury indictment against Rolando Lasferrer and certain
of his associates is a potentially explosive natter which
could result in extensive damage to CIA activities in
Niami. Recent adverse publicity on the national scene and
in the Miami area have added substantially to the already
sizeable embarrassment potential. Some of the main sectors
of danger to CIA equities are described below.

2. Basic national publicity regarding student and.
foundation topics have already attracted attention of the
local press to the CIA in general. Usually any refcrence
to CIA covert activities leads the press to check files for
references to any such activities locally. However, before
this action could be taken, the story regarding the Pan
American Foundation and the University of Miami broke, and
the precs immediately concentrated on this topic. The CIA
Chief of Station learned through personal press contacts
that this was partly a matter of luck and partly because
of the friendly and cooperative attitude of these press
contacts. Although several editorials highly critical of
CIA kave been published and the replay of wire service
stories has been given much space, as yot there has been
no local follow-up aimed at patting CIA or the CIA Station
on the spot. However, the situation remains delicate,
since, even with much good will, local newomen cannot
afford to let themselves be scooped by outsiders concerning
stories in their own back yard.

3. Any now story, such as the 22 February story in
Foris Jornal Tribune on suspected CIA connection with
recruitment of Cucan pilots for the Congo, the possible
results of inquiry made on 21 February by three students
conscoted with the University of Miazi newspaper The
Farricane, or further revelations concerning the Pan
merican Foundation, could easily trigger publicity with
an inevitable focus on the South Campus of the University
of Miani and on the Miami Station cover firm..

14-00000
P
06,08
SEGHET
-2-
06,04.
As has been the case for the past six устга,
ad Dr. Eugene Other,
Dr. Henry King Stanford, President) and(Dr.
ice President and Treasurer) of the (University of Hini,)29
..ve extended their fullest cooperation concerning t
Mami Station and overali CIA interests and it is antic-
ipated they will continue to co so. However, we believe
there is a practical limit to the amount of pressure they
could stand from their trustees) and fron certain public
quarters if there is a flood of publicity regarding ΔΙΑ
ctivities allegedly centered in or controlled from the
Cenith Technical Enterprises Inc.), or its accused succcc-
cor, the (Holman Corporation such a situation arices,
is conceivable that Cr. Stanford) would feel impelled
to take some action aimed at diccssociating the Chiversity A
cf Liami) from from any contact with the the Golzar Corporation.
Since the Holmar Corp Corporationis ostensibly the tenant of
the University of Miami) although on Federal property,
the resulting action night involve a request for the
terrization of the tenancy, agrooment.

5. Even if the above circumstances did not exist, co
ould remain concerned regarding the possible effects of
the prosecution of the Masferrer group. Although no
Statión agents or percons with when the Miami Statich
has contractual arrangements are among the persons arrested
or those who will be prosecuted, it will be very easy for
The defense
the defense to drag CIA Miami into the cace.
has only to obtain testimony (true or perjured) frce onc
c' the defendants, or to sumon as cofense witness che or
more disaffected former agents of the CIA Station, in
order to begin a chain reaction surfacing much detail
and rumor concerning CIA operations against the Cuban
carget. Given the sizeablo reduction of infiltration
and Covert Action agents during the past year, a general
feeling of frustration and lack of support for Cuban
freedon attributed to passive U.S. policy and reduction
04 support in all sectors, the long standing animosity
of certain exile circles against U.S. Government, nouab
CIA, and the evaluation that CIA now is the cost zulmer.ble
of Federal Agencies confrenting then, exiles will be
tempted to see an attack against CIA as acccplichiz
several purposes, that is, gaining acquittal, blackoning
CIA, and exerting pressure on the U.S. Covernment for a
policy change.
: