14-00000
104-10167-10083
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

*!
SECRETI
DIAZ
22 September 1959
MEMORA DUM FOR THE HECORD
SUBJECT: Conversations with REICHHARDT, 8, 9, 16, 17 September 1959

1. On 8 September Reichhardt phoned to report the following:
a. He took Marcos DIAZ Lans to the office of INS on Hon-
day, 7 Septenber to take care of his imigration
states. (Corments I was later called by Bill COTTER
of the Alien Branch, CS concerning this. CUTTER said
that when they reported tris to INS - that service said
that AEFENS, the IXS aan in Miami has told them that
DIAZ bearing had already been held shortly after his
arrival. COTTER implied that Bernie was not reporting
accurately on the situation in Misi. I have not re-
peated this to bernie, because Alien brach seems to be
in something of a tissy in regard to the new people in
IKS with winca they are dealing as a result of recent
transfers of personnsl.)
b. Porate asked me to clarify what I wanted in th
Co
an affidavit of support for the wife of Marcos DIAZ.
I dictated a simple stresent and told Eernie to have
it notarized and accompanied by a bank statement or
similar document indicating WILLIAMS' ability to support
탕ld it become
y
Bernie reported that Mrs. Catherine TAAPS, the inter-
national busybody claims that she is going to Cuba on
our instigation. She is accompanied by her entire
family. This information came from the Miami Chief
of Detectives to the 00 Representative.
d. Bernie asked how he could identify himself to the three
evacuees in Miani we have instructed his to contact re
going to the Dordnican Republic on our behalf. I told
hin to use Dave Morales' name.
e. Be asked me for inforsation on our dispatch to Cura in
connection with the PRCs for AC00 and the gift. I
told hin I'd check and let him know. (Comment: The
same day I saw a dispatch from davana anevering the
questions, an info copy of which went to Bernie.)

SEORETI
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
-
1
14-00000
SECRET
2.
2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 September and we discussed the following
natters:
8.
04
I told hin about the visit of Angel Bús. He said he
had talked with bERS on this matter and that BS 04.
reported that Es came to sizni on 1 September and
left on 3 September. BrEPS thinks his is a secret
police agent. Bernie is to see for details on 04.
this. (Comsert: Reichbaret's report was received
on 11 September.)
b. Reichhardt asked me to check on his money situation
since no deposit has been nede.
Reichhardt asked if I had seen copies of the поз
letter being distributed by Emilio
Portuondo
called Latin American Events. IN MEZ is listed as
editor and publisher and the fira is intin American
Affairs Inc., 1023 Connecticut aveme, washington.
The first issue was published on ? August. The 17
bagust issue includes a list of Communists. (Consents
I an arranging for the Cia library to procure loan
copies of the publication for me to review.)
d. WWEZ was in Miami last week. ORTEGA did not see him,
but according to TEGA's scurces,
strongly in
plied that be bas succeeded in obtaining US support
in the Departments of State and Defense including
comitments for training sites in the Jaited States.
We also said that he is in touch with Col. King.
This was covered in Uhaa-15.
3. On 15 September I talked with Reichhardt concerning the following
a. Ricardo LOEIE sav ROS. Sernie will see ICRIE about this.
b. Bernie will see FOX this week.
c. The addresses for the tao evacuess uto came by way of
El Salvador are not correct. I told Bernie to try to
find out where they are from the third, with whos be
is in contect.
d. Bernie asks that his local travel order be reneved.
(Comments I checked this and the order has been
renewed through 31 December 1959.)
4. On 16 September the following matters were discussed with
Reichhardt:
SECRETI
4IBR
-
14-00000
SEOFET
a. SANNIS: Fe called in the morning to ask for infor-
sation on this man. According to beichhardt, LWATE
says that he was fire from the DIER for anti-Com-
manist activities and was expected to arrive in Miami
last night. UAE is worried about his because of his
previous post as No. 2 man in the Mia. The Cuban card
confiras that he held the latter post..
b. De LCRIK says that he knows HCS well, and likes him.
They net in Miami last week. RCS is in Miami again.
208 is principally interested in getting äeynaldo
BLANCO out of Cuba. RCS says he was told the American
Fabassy can have no part of this but suggested he (ECS)
asik De LORIE to see his Mini contact shout assistance.
Bernie discouraged LCKIE abcut helping BLANCO. Bernie
feels it is range that Station Havana would tell ROS
about LORIE's Miand contact and that the former sight
have nis-represented what was said. (Comments ke can-
not positively identify BiAXCO - although such an indi-
vidual wes listed by LORER and the DIAZ Lanz as an Army
officer. its ay have been one of the 1957 regular army
plotters.).
c. ICRIE also asked help in converting Pesos to dollars.
Bernie did not give him an answer on this.
d. LORIS said he wants to establish contact with ROS.
The plan we heve so far only envisages communication
from RCS in Havana to LERIE. While bernie would pre-
far to handle the matter personally, I think I con-
vinced hin that this is unfeasible because of the
danger of provocation. He therefore suggested having
04 Cheesman brought into the picture, mocysously, as an
Individual who would get in touch with LORIE when there
is something for him from ROS. and who will call LORIE
periodically to find out if. LORIE wants to transit
anything to ROS. This sounds OK to ne. Bernie will
see CHESMAN within the next few days on this.
04
e. LORIE told berufe that Cuban opposition views BONSAL'S
trip to the US as a victory for the opposition - bat
that if KOONSAL returned to Cuba they will view the
return as a triomph for CASTRO.
I. According to an 00 source Mrs. Katherina TAAFE will be
returning to the US from Caba in a few days. She told
at least one American in Cuba, Barry Rosenfeld, that she
is working for CIA.
i
SECRET
ZIBR
14-00000
1
SEGRET
4.
8. In connection with my earlier query re the report from
Cube that the Revolutionary Air Force is planning to
remove a couple of planes from the US to Caba without
an export permit, cernie got the following information
04 from STEPS A Cuban air force mission is in Mianico-
cerning the aircraft. The Cutans are happy with the
04way BF:R5 has handled things for them even though they
don't have the export license yet. As has been asked 04
to a party in Havana to be given by Juan Aimeida in his
honor. He may go on Friday. Do we have requirements
for hin?
5. On the worcing of 17 August I phoned Bernie to tell him about the
folowup on the report concerning the planes (Haba 2653). lie said Keynolde 03
phoned him on the evening of 16 September about this. bernie said be passed
the information to Customs, who said that since the Cuban Air Force are the
owners of the planes (they are AT 6's) there is little that can be done if
they file flight pians for a local flight and then leave for Cuba. They
asked bernie for suggestions and ne said he had none. BIERS reports that 04.
the Cubens asked his if he could find American pilots for the planes
and he said he'd try, but actually has no intention of doing so.
was impressed at the speed and accuracy of our information, but believes
that the Cuban Goverment is being precipitate in expecting to get the
planes out.
•TOFRS 04
SECRET
03
1. J. Flores/
WH/III/40
7/BR