14-00000
104-10226-10045
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
HABORAM MOM FOR THE RECORD
4 May 1961
SUBJECT: Briefing of Mr. Maurice Oldfield,,1-6, by WR/4, Clark Simmons

1.  In view of the request of Mr. Maurice Oldfield", MI-6
representative, for identities and further particulars regarding the
Robert Morten Geddes cass meating was held on 2 May 1961 with WH/4/C1,
Clark Sinaone, with Mr. Cleveland C. Cras and John C. Roberts of WB/6
Aléo present.

8. At the outset Br. Oldfield provided the following information:

a. Robert Bortes Gedden is a British subject born in
Lina, Peru, on 7 April 1932. He holds Brittan passport No. C-34880,
issued at Nasagua on 14 June 1956. Be a not reglajered at the..
British Consulate to Havana and was regarded as being American or
Canadian,

B. Two saployees of the British Esbassy, Havana, has visited
Geddes in the Harann jail (silitary G-2 section) on Sunday evening,
30 April 1981, and had a 15-ainate conversation with Geddes alone under
etrouastances woich they felt were not monitored. Geddes stated to
then: (1) On 19 April he was arrested by the militia (in civilian
clothes) at his hotel (2) He had been interrogated three times and
gave the lapression that he had not disclosed anything of importance;
(3) is as accused of being a CIA agent, and told that he could be
shot because of the existence of civil war: (4) During the third
interrogation Geddes dמעכרט פג set thor stro a Bessage in Spanis
signed by Goddea which was sent allegedly by dia by radio-transmitter
asking that CIA send arme to Cuba..

c. The British Embassy in Havana learned on Saturday,
$9 Agri! 1961, that Geddes had regularly teen "picked up" at the
Navara airport ca his tripe to and from Miant. (kr. Oldfield, was not
certain vast exact 15terpretation could be given to the term
"picked up").

3. After relating the above, . Oldfield stated that his carvice
is interested in chaiping an estimate of the sort of story the Cuban
night use against Geddes or is provocation against the British Bebassy,
perasps to prove that the British Bebassy had been in collumion with
the C. S. He referred to the following specific queations which he
had submitted earlier on a day and which were relayed by 88/6 to 8/4
R. Hopkins fer ansvers to be given in the asteraces dession by Ciark
ISRCENTO

SECRET
14-00000
SECRET

2
:
a a. What was the identity of the agent cuide Cuba who gave GALDES
the message he brought to the CIA contact in. Mis on il parch 1961;
b. That was the identity--or case of 48--used by the CIA case
officer in Miani;
o. Was Geddes given any means of clandestine radio-tranosisaton;
d. What were the laatructions gives to GEDORS by his case officer.
4. Mr. Simmons replied as follows:

a. The coly means of consunication given to Geddes, besides his
open code phone contact with his wife 10 Boca Raton, was a very staple 58
systen. Coddee was not given any means for clandestice radio-trans38108106.
b. Blasons then raad and related the following chronology of
Goddes' activities from WH/4 files:
11 March! Gadden came to Blast on the sight of 11 Barca and made contact
51th Cabbage/4, a Cuban is Miast who was in contact with the CIA office.
Gadden had a anusage from Cabbage/l a CIA contact inside Cuba, C-4 put
Geddes in contact with a CIA case officer in Miami on 12 March, Goddes
claimed to be an active wester of the United Revoluciscaria, a restplance
group inside Cuba of which C-l was a hacer. At the
Cuban Navy has a plan to attack all pro-Castro facilities and then flea
Cuba on or about 22 March. Costes dia got ask for any acces
sas act kassa. The case officer Statructions to Caddie were related soles
to Geddes' report that the Coban Navy uccid defect. Geddes returned to
Havana,
16 March: Geddaa departed for Havega,

des said the
His sativatica
20 Karch! We heard indirectly - Geddes had prozed his wife and indicated
that the individual (C-D with whom he had been collaborating in Caltad
Rovclucionaria was in trouble.
agsuts (seanor of the CB) 1881de Cuba had against instructione visited ats
The fact behind this was that one of our
vifo la Cuba. As a result a R set of red pere::s was arrested including
C-1. Besides C-1, acne of the other of als notes of Goddaa' activitiem.
21 March': Geddes returned to Biani.
28 March: Geddes case to Havana,
Beglaning about 29 arch we had reason to suspect Goccia as a possible
is vas given a simple 88 syaten.
provocateur since the Jafection had not ceas off and possibility of keeping
the defection of the Navy secret in itself was implausible.
27 March: Caddes sent a 57 assage to Miksi regarding the possible Cuban
KAVAl defection.
28 March: Through open ocde telecon with wife said defection of Navy ast
forto
April.
39 March:
Geddes called wife on telephone.
:

SECRET
14-00000
SECRET
-3-
1 April: Codden sent an 88 asssage which was hand-carried to
Kal by a courier. Geddes also had a telecos with his wife on
this day..
2 April: Coddes said in telecen to wife that haval conspirators
would meet sa 3 April and Geddes auld give ca ca 5 April a final
date for the defection..
4 April:
Caddes indicated in talecon to wire that the Bayal
defection would take place "say day" now.
7 Aprii: Ge received a régage fros Goddaa selivered by a third
party (courier) that the Navy plans to defect on 5 or 7 April.
Goddes returned to Hiani and said the date was dos set for 8 or 9
April.
10 April: Geddes returned to avans.
:
:
11 April: Gadden telephoned his wife that the defection could take
place on 13 or 14 April.
18 April: Geddes in telecon with wife reported that the defecties
would be on 17 or 18 April.
c. During the account of the above carralogy, Biracas
made the following comments:
(1) The CIA agent inside (C-1) vouched for Geddes but we here is
Readquartors 60 sot know to what extent C-bad promed into the back-
ground of Geddes and his contacta. Se tere 614 advise Hisai sot to
take any sution until we had obtained Britide conceptance bat by
that time Gaddeu had already returned to Ravaza He reiterated that
Geddes vas a walk-ia and vas gaver treated as an ages.
(3) Gaddan and his forecast regarding the afection of the Caban
Havy vora atspect free the oatset. the claimed to be a British
aitisen but vas already performing for the C.8.
(3) To. Oldfield's questica as to whether Coddes had any access
to a / aa, Bigsoas replied that to his kasuledge Geddes caiy had
phose ccatact with his wife, SW and one of courtor.
(4) Ma aras deliveries vare involved in the contact with Geddes.
(3) 8imas said he would look into whom Geddes could certanizato
or put the finger on.
(6) 5.Oldfield's estan repasted reguest for identities of
C-4, C-1, the Missi case officer, and the ces that was arrested a
16 March, Simsons replied that caly the DC! has the authority to
relepas sach Laformation.
:
(T) The Kiani case officer Rover earved inside Cuba.
SECRET
14-00000
SECRET

3. After Er. Oldfield had put a number of questions to Bianoas
the latter asked Oldfield whether Gottes is possibly a British agent
which Oldfield osphatically answered in the negative.
6. Mr. Oldfield said that he would awsond off a conspication
to his service ladicating that Goddes night be a glossy-a provocateur.
Hevever, be asked that ba bo provided with the following:
8. CIA appreciation of the United Revolucionaria;
b. Identities of C-1, C-4 and western of the net with whos
C-1 was arrested on March 18 (18: Sianoza acknowledged that booldes
C-1 conceivably several other avatars of this not sight have koos of
Geddes sad din activities.)
c. Identities of the couriers who had contact with Cod
4.
The identity of the CIA cass officer--tho zaso or naves.
qsed by his in contacts with Geddes;
e. Chronological summary of the visits of Geddes to Miast
and saturns to Havana; also a list of the nature of his communications
to Rical (by tolacca, courier, etc.) and communications seat to his 18
Havana,

SECRET
John G. Roberta
DC/W8/6