14-00000
104-10119-10367
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
20 February 1970
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
SUBJECT: VAN HET REVE, Karel - #839052
REFS; Attached Clippings from the NEW YORK TIMES atd 11 Jan 1970 and
NEWSWEEK dtd 12 Jan 1970

1. References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen
Foundation in Amsterdam, is publishing the writings of Soviet dissenters;
notably Andrei AMALRIK, Andrei SAKHAROV, Pavel LITVINOV and Anatoly T. MARCHENKO.
24
2. Subject was granted a POA in June 1969 for use as an informant by
SB/PO/M, W. Europe, under Project AEEGGHEAD.

Atts. Refs.

Sarah K. Hall
SRS/OS

14-00000
NEW YORK TEES
✓ 11 January 1970
-New Dutch Group Is Publishing
Writings of Soviet Dissenters
By HENRY RAYMONT
A group of West European, virt waters as one of the
scholars have set up a non-fed et obsessive fear, thus hardc
profit organization, the Alex-i Pret the Russian author's rep-
ander Herzen Foundation in that there is nothing in Soviet
Amsterdam ,to disseminate law to prevent them from pub-
works by dissident Soviet lishing abroad and they insist
w.iters. on exercising their rights."
The purpose is to protect the What differentiates the Her-
author's name against piracy, zen Foundation from some of
political exploitation, careless the émigré presses that publish
Hanslations and other compli- manuscripts smuggled out of
cations that have often marked) the Soviet Union, he main-
the publication in the West of tained, is that it has the ap-
manuscripts smuggled out of proval of the authors to act
the Soviet Union. as their agent abroad.
With the increasing interest Established in 1968
in Soviet dissent, scores of The foundation was estab-
Western publisters in recent, lished in 1968 by Dr. Karel van
months have turned to the het Reve became friendly with
foundation for book rights to literate at the University of
such works as Andrei Amal) Leyden, with support from a
riok's "Will the U.S.S.R. Sur- group of Dutch businessmen.
vive Until 1984?", Anatoly T. While he was Moscow cor-
Marchenko's "My Testimony," respondent for a Dutch news-
and essays hy Pavei Litvinov, paper in 1967 and 1968, Dr. van
grandeca of Maxim Litvinov, het Reve became friendly with
Soviet Foreign Minister under several writers who asked to
Stalin. be helped in getting their
books published in the West.
After he returned to Amster-
Though the translations re-
ceived wide notice in the West- dam in 1968, Dr. van het Reve
ern press, little was known was joined by Dr. Jan Besemer.
about the foundation until one another Russian literature pro-
of its representatives came here fessor, who was also a news-
last week to explain its role paper correspondent in Mos-
to United States publishers. cow, and Prier Reddaway, a
"We received our inspiration lecturer at the London School
from the enlightened efforts of Alexander Herzena to defy to-
of Economics. One of the in-
talitarian methods against Rus- stitute's principal advisers is
sian authors by publisiring themi m Max Hayward, a translator of
in the West and sending their Russian literature.
books back through a literary
underground, the representa is to publish a manuscript in
The foundation's procédure
tive, who asked not to be iden- en Tits original Russian text, there-
tified, said in an interview. by insuring copyright, before
Herzen Had a Journal offering it to publishers in
Western Europe and the Unit-
Herzen, an aristocratic litera-ed States.
teur and father of Russian Since it placed its first book
socialism, in 1857 started al in the West, Mr. Litvinov's
periodical, Koiokol (The Bell). "Dear Comrade" (published
in London to publicize his ideas here by Pitman), the organiza-
and those of other dissidents tion has supervised transla-
hanned by Tsarist autocracy. tions and collected royalties
The journal established a long for the authors. It is now pre-
tradition of Russian publishing paring several test cases to de-
in exile that over the years has termine whether the authors
included such authors as Lenin, can be paid through official ac
Gorky, Trotsky and Pasternal:. counts in the Soviet State
"The new generation of So- Bank.

14-00000
12 January 1970
Underground Press
By normal city-desk standards, Karel
bet Reve wasn't much of a news-
d in his days as Moscow corr, spond-
for the Dutch daily Het Parool. "I
Pept forgetting to ask names and ages,"
he reals. But then, van het Reve was
My a scholar of Russian literature who
Lat only signed on with the newspaper
esa way of spending a year or so in the
Sot Union. And now, Lack at his lec-
nat Leylo University, the mild-man-
br-old ex-reporter is scoop-
se the work! by breaking the story of
weal birzal opposition movement in
for wlation nained
Akadir Herzen, the nineteenth-
hrough a
dur Russian writer who printed
Jared Russian manscripts abroad, van
fret bee has begun releasing a flood of
margoand poltical documents and
memoirs for publication in the West.
Acting only as agent and translator, van
bet Reve made headlines with the bitter,
apocalyptic pamphlet "Will the U.S.S.R.
Survive Until 195-4?" by youthful historian
Aosci Amalrik, which appeared in the
fall issue of the British quarterly Survey,
Ard best week, van het Reve gave NEWS-
Vear'r Bobert J. Korengold an exclusive
at his latest triumph over Soviet
porship: a 400-page dossier on the
closed-door trial of four Russian dissi-
der's-Yuri Galkanskov, Aleksandr Ginz-
burg. Aleksei Dobrovolsky and Vera
Lashkova-that took place in Moscne's
grim Kolom hovka Street courthouse in
carly 1968.
Van het Reve, as it happens, "cow-
cred that trial himself, shivering with
the rest of Moscow's foreign press corps
in sabzero cold on the street outside the
court. The charges were, in essence,
mplicity in the production of a "white
rk" of all gedly auti-Soviet documents
erming the 1966 trial of writers
Yoh Panel and Andrei Sinyavsky plus
alieged collusion with NTS, a counter-

10
revolutionary Russian émigré group in
Frankfurt, Germany. Friends of the ac-
cused smuggled out thumbnail accounts
of each day's procce lings, and when
the trial ended, van het Reve, through
his friendship with one of the self-
appointed court recorders, came into
possession of the 120 different manu-
scripts which make up the book that
Longmans Green will publish in Britain
Tater this year.
Time: Though much of the material is
technical, courageous voices like that of
Ginzburg bring the combative atinos-
phere of the tral to life. "I thought and
I continue to think now," he declared to
the judge, "that if I des agree with
something I should express my disagree-
ment openly... I know that you will con-
vict me because not one person charged
under Article 70 [anti-Soviet activity] has
ever beert acquitted. I will go off to the
camp calmly to serve my time."
Van het Reve naturally isn't eager to
reveal how he smuggled out this mass of
documentation. "Let's just say I man-
aged," he smiles. Probably through the
time-honored methods of the plain brown
envelope and the luggage of departing
foreigners, he and the Herzen Founda-
tion, which ironically occipies the former
headquarters of the Dutch Communist
Patty in Amsterdam, have "managed" to
receive not only the Amalrik pamphlet
and the Ginzburg trial records, bat a
steady flow of other anti-regime works
including a sharp attack on Soviet politics
by Andrei Sakharov, the noted nuclear
physicist, and a factual account of life
in the U.S.S.R.'s labor camps by Anatoly
Marchenko, who is still serving time for
"agitation."
A lapsed Stalinist turned democrat,
van het Reve insists that the Herzen.
Foundation is apolitical. "Our only aim is
to give these people a chance to publish
and that's all," he says. And if he can
keep his foundation clear of damaging
outside support and free of any profit
motive, at
wall hue gone
tate, then be
i
:
Vially beckrmend the reaption & t
San socint enti abroad.
>