14-00000
104-10265-10118
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
20 October 1959
1
MFMORANDUM FOR THE REDURD
SUBJLOP Highlights of Tape-Recorded Conversation in Hand Betwoen
Mr. William D. Pawley and an Unidentified Cuban during
Poriod 17-18 October
1. On 20 October the undersignod and Owen Faust of WH/3
listened to the play-book of a tepe, brought to Washington from land
and given to Colonel King by Mr. Pauley on 19 October, which was a
recording of Mr. Pawley's conversations with two Cubans during the
pertod 17-18 October. The first converastion was with an addentifiod
Cuban, bollaved to bo a member of a group of wealthy anti-CASTRO Cubans,
manbors of which have talked to Mr. Paulay recently about their
plane for sabotage of the coming sugar harvest as reported in UMWA-32
dated 2 October. The second Cuban wan AKPACA-1, a Cuban journalist
of operational interest to Station Habana, and a separate memorandum
is submitted on that conversation.
2. The unidentified Cuban, who had songhat of an accent and
spoke indistinctly, was difficult to understand. He mentioned a
moeting "with some of our people who came up from Cuba" to disouse
plans. He said his proup had been contacted by a representative of
General Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA, leader of Cuban revolutionary groupe
in the Dominican Republic, who wanted to know what action their group
had taken and was told that they had a plan to start sabotege". The
Cuban said the PEDRACA representative said their group (the PIDRAZA
group) had four provinces organised in Cuba, mentioning Camaguey and
Santa Clara, and that they had two provinces yet to be organized
Habana and Matonsas.
3. The Cuban said his group needed two things moral backing
and money, he pointed out that Cubans in Cuba are afraid to start an
underground movement, and there was no way to raise funds, ote. Mr.
Pawley gave him no encouragement on the money angle, saying that even
if there were Americana willing to run the risk of becoming involved
in Cuban revolutionary activities by furnishing money for such a
movment, which he doubted, he felt that at the present time it would
be like "putting money dom a rat-hole" for the following reasonas
(1) there is no unity among the anti-CASTRO groups, and there are at
least 10 that he knows of who are working absolutely independently of
one another; and (2) CASTRO is in control of the country and has the
support of a large number of Cubans, especially the under-privileged.
Hr. Pauley said he felt the Cuban economic situation was worsening
fast and that if it gets bad enough, a large number of Cubana will
turn on CASTRO, but until that time cores it would be dangerous to
try to organise a rewolutionary movement.
SECRET
201-77318
14-00000
2
SECRET
-2-
4. Mr. Poney asked the Cuben if his group felt they had oral
support of the U. 5. and the Cuben replied that they wonted 9. &.
moral support but whether they had it or not, they felt they were
obliged to carry through with their plans. Mr. Poulay naid he didn't
know what to tell him would have to think about it and see if any.
thing could be done. Ho said, "having been connected with the U. S.
Covernment, I can't get involved in revolutionary provimente". Also
said he would hate to and the Dominican Government got involved,
which might be difficult to avoid with so many Cuban oxiles there,
bat commented that ho uvierstood "the Dominican Government hasn't
given then a diso.
Marthe Tharpe
WR/III/CARIB
SECRET