14-00000
104-10163-10065
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
"Former Contorte Vivana Stakon
able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my sind be
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real 1068 to
the Agency if we lose sight or contact with adolfo. I have net few men
more dedicated and more loyal.
271704
05
5. Hamon UiATEGUI Lezara ANFAN-3. Recruited by PAN-2 and sa
close to each other that we referred to them as the Gold Just Twins.
Ramon was in the snipping business in ilavana and eventually had to
leave. He lost his hore, cars, furnishings, etc. His im is now
planning to send nim to Nicaragua, and i rave recommended him to the
Nicaragua desk Dr. Rental He has all the qualities ascribed to
Adolfo SAN FELAYO (see above) except that he has rever been an Aperican
citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and
most anxious to caintain contact with the Agency. It wiil be our loss
if this is not done.
251087
6. Bernard Barker. AMCLATTER-L. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
Cutal-Azerican. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.P. See PRG and 201 for full
bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, and he served feithfully until
whad to exfiltrate hir sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of
valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and
bad an amasing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-
facts in all walks of life. Be vas a boxing manager and know timately.
ail Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-
dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness
was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if
not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast
aspersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of
Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. re are to the
process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the
Station reopens I would certainly recommend that w continue to maintain
contact with Barker. If nothing eind he would race & vonderful leg-mat
for the Chief of Station, his wife is an attractive Cucen zal who is ti-
lingual and an balligerently inertion as he 13. Sarker, by
by language, could paas either as an American or a man - a goouin
asset if he could be taught to submerge his americanina.
05
ذلة
7. Καπολο VEGA Abril. I ret Nanolo through Jorge US POL
(Dow a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion).
Manolo is working for us now in Piami, and I ore full bia
date on him. Nanclo's family owned, along with Repurite Steel, the
steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cia.
Antillas de Acero, 3.A.). Manolo as a brother, besin d' would
also be worth cultivating. Through his business and fally corrections
Manolo knew a great maliy peύμίν οἱ onerational interact. One of bi
friends was David GALVADOR, although Manolo did not ware SALVADOR
political thinking (extreme left and anti-Aerican),
objective a reporter as I have ever encountered asong la
SECRET
ale w
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
3180