14-00000
104-10111-10079
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
43872
DAVID CHRIST
14 August 1961
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

The day after her husband’s arrest, 16 September 1960, Mrs. Christ
and her daughter-in-law were brought by plane to Washington to be reunited
with her.  Since she spoke no English, the conversation was via her
daughter-in-law.

Mrs. Christ had very little knowledge of the foreign activities
performed by her husband and only vaguely of his experience in the audio
surveillance fields.  Moreover, operations security and audio
surveillance were relatively new to her.

Mrs. Christ was advised that her husband and Chief of the Audio
Operations Erich, and that this branch performs all requests within the
organization for the clandestine installation of telephones and other
listening devices.  She was also told that as Chief of this Branch, under
Foreign Intelligence Requirements, Fordson was modern on a world wide
bases.  Mrs. Christ was astonished to learn that her husband’s assignment
in Havana had clandestine and dangerous.  She knows that the technicians
in Havana were to place audio installations at various Cuban sights and
were scheduled for security by the CIA-financed troops agency.  Mrs. Christ
was told that her husband, two other employees of the organization, a
State Department employee and an agent were apprehended by the Cuban C-2
(the Cuban security force).  Mrs. Christ knew that the State Department employee
mentioned (whose Cuban conversation was actually a Defense officer under
State Department cover).  Although the name of the agent (Fordson) was
not mentioned at this time, Mrs. Christ had read about him in various news-
paper accounts at the time of the trial.  Mrs. Christ was also told
that the operational indulgence that her husband possessed, if disclosed
to the Cubans, would not only cause considerable damage to the United
States Government, but would also lead to intensive and probably brutal
interrogation of her husband by the Cubans and probably the Russians as
well.  She was not advised of other operations involving her husband.

Mrs. Christ was given as much information as possible about Mr. Christ’s
career story.  He was employed by a covert organization, Vachats Associates,
located in New York City and had been provided with alien documentation,
such as a driver’s license and a total security “cover.”  Christ under-
stood the reason for this cover story; it was easier for her husband to
pass as a bachelor than to absorb the appearance of a family.  At no time
were the movements or activities of his Lorincard technicians, prior to
their arrest, been discussed with Mrs. Christ.  Mrs. Christ was informed
that in the event of danger the technicians planned to escape to an
apartment which was occupied by an unwitting State Department secretary.

Since the initial interview, Mrs. Christ has gradually picked up
additional information, mostly from newspaper articles, about the opera-
tion and subsequent trial.  It is believed that Mrs. Christ has not
obtained any clandestine information about the operation other than
that disclosed in this procedure.  At the time of the first interview,
we were not too interested in the operational aspect of the case, nor the
prospects for her husband’s return.  At the time of the trial, what little
directly operational information was personally discussed with
Mrs. Christ, we insisted upon the need for operational security.  Rather,
that she was instructed not to ask any questions about his release or his
present whereabouts.

Mrs. Christ was informed that Mr. Taylor, who was the Department of
State Welfare Officer in Havana at the time of the technicians’ arrest,
had contacted the prisoners shortly after their arrest.  She was told
that Mr. Taylor had written to the technicians’ families regularly and was
able to verbally transmit mutual comments that came from their families.
Mrs. Christ sent some money through Kessler to her husband, prior to
the occurrence of diplomatic relations.  She was also aware of Kessler’s
activities in behalf of the technicians and knows that he supplied them
with spending money, vitamins, cigarettes, candy and other items as requested.
She was told that Kessler hired Dr. Colomer, a Cuban National, to serve
as the technicians’ attorney.  In May 1961, Kessler visited Washington, D.C.
on welfare business and told Mrs. Christ on the occasions in the presence
of other Government employees

Mrs. Christ also knows that Dr. Colomer left Havana with his wife
in June 1961 had has been brought to Washington, D.C. and is associated
with Government personnel.  She has been told that another Cuban attorney
was hired by Dr. Colomer to represent the technicians and handle the case
when the appeal is heard.  It is not intended that Mrs. Christ should
know about the Washington attorney, Mr. Murphy, but she appears to be
acquainted with the name.

Mrs. Christ has learned from newspaper articles that there are
about 20 American prisoners of Wa Ta’s of Flown and that conditions
at the prisons are extremely poor.  She also knows that food is brought
to the technicians by a Cuban or non-Cuban who occupies a cell with the
technicians.  She was advised that Dr. Colomer saw the technicians a
few days prior to his departure, that they were in good spirits and
that Mr. Kessler constantly worked in the prisons.

Desiring to knowledge of specific operations undertaken by the
organization to obtain her husband’s release, Mrs. Christ has been of
only one direct approach.  She was told that the Cuban attorney
offered to exchange medical supplies for the freedom of the three
technicians and that the offer was never acted upon by the Cubans.
She also knows that we have tried several other unsuccessful operations
but she is unaware of any details of those attempts.  Mrs. Christ knows
that others of the operation now in progress, which contemplates utilizing
personnel in Barbados.  On several occasions what the organization currently
considered a given operation, this being, to her astonishment, the
address.  For example, when Center prepared considering tractors for prisoners,
Mrs. Christ casually questioned concerning an as to what action was under way to
include the technicians in any exchange.  She also has whatever ideas as
to how this should be carried out.  Still, she would only be told that the
negotiations were being closely monitored and that there would be no
interference in behalf of her husband, unless the political climate was
favorable.

As the Negro-American political atmosphere sharpens and possible
acts occur, such as the hijacking of J. F. Stephenson, Mrs. Christ might
ask ideas or approaches regarding the means we might use to check any
violence of her husband.  Of course, about the same time, we are casually
considering a standby capability.

Mrs. Christ has been verbally advised of the contents of the camages
we have arranged with the technicians and knows that the adse have been
unable to visit them.  She knows that over 1000 posce was left by Dr. Colomer
with the Cubans and that this amount is being supplemented through Dara.
She also knows that we recently rejected the Cuban license to transmit supplies
(in packages or pocketed and that the packages which we sent to the techni-
cians were not received by the fail, and therefore, no further packages
will be sent.

The operational details which have been discussed with Gen. Taylor,
but not with Mrs. Christ are of such a nature that little damage would
be done if they were inadvertently revealed to Mrs. Christ.  The main
points which should not be discussed with her are:

1.  The name of the Washington attorney handling the case,

2.  Details of present or future operations designed to
effect the release of the man.