14-00000
104-10217-10225

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SPATCH
Chief of Station, London for LCPIPIT

Chief of Station, London

Chief, WOLIME

SUBJECT: RYBAT/DTDORIC/PLQRPHONE/MHPROBE/STFLIXPLAN Training
ACTION REQUIRED- REFERENCES
REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 294821

1. Being forwarded USC are copies of the QRPHONE/1 training
report, the JEMINIMUM evaluation, contact reports of meetings with
QRPHONE/1, a WOGEAR review of QRPHONE/1's book and some notes made
by the STFLIMFLAM Headquarters officer, Harvey B. DAITCHMAN (IDEN),
after his meetings with QRPHONE/1. These are for the information
of both LCPIPIT and London Station and, taken together, should give
you both the flavor of the variety of measures taken to assess the
operational potential of QRPHONE/1.

2. During PAUPEROS' TDY at Headquarters ve discussed the
necessity of having QRPHONE/1 undergo an intensive seven day
STFLIMFLAN training program to be conducted by DAITCHMAN. It is
our opinion that in order for this training to be of maximum
benefit, QRPHONE/1 and DAITCHMAN ought to be ensconced in a
safehouse facility which provides security, comfort and an
atmosphere conducive to learning. It is important that the
training be conducted in a locale which will allow QRPHONE to give
his full attention without being disturbed by his multitude of
business and social contacts. Therefore, we recommend that LCPIPIT
rent a cottage or beach house away from London for the duration of
the training cycle. In discussing this with QRPHONE, he readily
agreed and indicated that there would be no difficulty in getting
away from his family for as long as we thought necessary.

Attachments:
A. As Stated (u/s/c)
B. Iden Sheet (u/s/c)

Distribution:
2ATT - Orig. & 1 - COS, London for LCPIPIT (w/att)
1 - COS, London (w/att)

approval of sel

CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OEPW-1814
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
4 AUG 1972
TYPEST
DDP/CA/B3/Ken Rosen:ckj (31 July 1972)

AC/CA/B3
14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OKPW-1814

simply would tell them and his business contacts that he was
traveling on the continent. Please advise us of the dates which
are determined to be convenient to PAUPEROS and QRPHONE/1. The
Headquarters officer would prefer either the third or fourth
week of September, and certainly not before.

3. As indicated in the reference ve solicit comments fro
LCPIPIT and London Station on the results of our varied assessments
of QRPHONE/1 and our decision to move ahead in the new operational
directions described in OEPW-1661. We view the coming year as a
trial one for these purposes and the Project Renewal has been
submitted with that understanding clearly described.

4. Since QRPHONE/1 might refer to conversations he had with
Andrew F. TELQUIST (P), PAUPEROS should know that TELQUIST used
the alias "Bob" in all his meetings with QRPHONE/1.

Allan W. TEUTSCHMAN
17 June 1972

MORARIOM FOR: Chief, WOLIME

Completion of Training Report for QEPHONE/1,
Training Progrua "SHAM"
- Hero for Director of WOMOLD From Chief,
WOLIME dated 23 dny 19721
Bubjects "Covert Training for GAFIOZ/1"

LCAFEONE/1 vas trained covertly in New York from 22 June to
in July 1972. Thare vore sixteen ssssions for a total of eighty saves
training bours.

his was a happy ramion of traines and instructor. Less than
two years ago, PIOM vas given three days of reports training (Pleass
aen Cogistion of Training Report dated 19 October 1970). Just as them,
Rams totally engrossed in every training cassion from the κακοης
of his arrival to the moment of his departure. Rencadering that the
Anstructor does not eat lunch, FECUS brought a candwich with his daily
Bond took this luach while listening to the instruptor. Thus, every
pitute of every day was made to count.

3. Daly tize lost was three hours for Jems and cn thể
several phone calls he had to wake daily to check for calls to his cover
office, then follow up with calls to those persons who had called his
office and bad left ressages to be called back. At the most, these calls
tosz half an hour. On soms days, thay took far less.

-
4. His comer organization work took up a considerable portion,
everyday, of his free ties with the result that he could not do any
Casing to spack of for subsequent zwoparation of como plons for exercises.
For example, told early on to prepara tuo dead drop caso plas, ba
tas aut able to come up with crything till the last weck and then
with caly one written ans and one that bs reveived crally. As a result
ha bad to be givea tine during the training day to write reports of
&is countermavaillanca exercises and cas of his agent developmental
exercisca. Aftur one such exercice, acked if ha wished to taka ties
cua curing the training day to write his report he saids Lo, toaine
I will make time to write it." And he did. And it was a good report.

5. Ca each Sunday, he went out of town to visit his aged Gruszother.
is god the travel time to read tradecraft books (he read soven altogether).

-2-

On Russday, July ith, his phlisher appointed him baby sitter for the
publisher's tean age son and there went any hops of getting any casing
congiet by least cathasi ust be did not
to bed till two that morning and as he had left the afternoon before,
bo had atutod that bo hed ratings stating at four thirty that afternose.
With all that, he neverthaless was fully alert and attentive every atute
of every training sassion.

tada crvelopcantal recruitzan's serias of exercises, his
Anstructor played the role of operations officer - and a real dub
Anh ta uzs. In such circustances, FCC had to do all the thaking,
ell, the pleming, all the casing for sooting sites, all the analysing
all the greyering and pointing for the recruitment. It was pure Joy
to watch this man, after each resting and again before the next ama,
to work on the problem. is know where he was, knew where hetmated
to go, knew how to get there.. When TELQUIST , during the critique
at the end of the series of exercisca said: "Es did a beautiful job,"
PEONE Ded oxrced that accoledo all by hircalf. The instructor's caly
contsitution bed been in the teaching of the subject of Agcat Acquisition.

At this point, the instructor wishes to execute a low bow in
the directica of TELQUIST He played his egent role excellently vall
επά καôα the exurciss a reeningful ons for F10.3. The three triga to
You Yaz by TELQUISTE have been very toxing, particularly in view
of his imediately upcoming ZIN trip, but they were efforts wall egent.

"
نه
28. man, of course, is perfect. Each has an Achilles heol, a
vesingse, or an all-too-hurn treft, at the vury least. Our EUR baa
his He has a very quick aind. Es knows it. And knowing it, he relica
ca it, counts on it. This, in twn, leads to a call failure in celf-
disciplins. For exazpio, told to write out his plan for the recruitment
pitch, ko cams in with six vords (wayta not that many) scratched an a
9ty 5 leet torn cat of his pocket notebook. He then proceeded, fro
these few words, to run off his pien without a single pause for en
due, ato. It was es though he was reading a definition from s
aloticary, so smothly did his mind and thoughts rua. Ho prepares
Grarything in his mind, it appears, end does not like to wita out
thes which bo feals ba chould not have to trife out. While it is great
to have to facile a vind, a bit of disciplins, to write out in full
so Aparturs en act as a recuritzant pitch, night cas day save grief
stra en error would have bean spotted had the entire plan been critten
out thea Looked over for possible flows.

منه all fies, the instructor feals, accounts in considerable
Frissure for FSONG's failure to bring in a written deed drop plantill
the Irat days of the progres. FEDE felt he could just es easily raport
orally. In fact, the other dead drop (ha had been asked to do two)
sa thich he reported orally, he discussed as though the paper was in
front of him and he was reading from it. Kothing was missing -- area
description, access, hours of availability, the opposition, pros and
cona es to suitchility - it ins all there. He just didn't like to
vrita cut that upon which he could report orally.

10. Za vriting reports on the two counter-surveillance exercises,
Le dabed those off in jiz tius. Do pause for thinking, no panse to
lochtet the calling or cut the window. Just straight writing, includ
ing paragraphing. Mind and pea vere as one. Same thing for his cral
ancirais before and after auch zasting - co panse to think, to review,
to porastruct, to receber - Just en Ihtypo printout.

12. The instructor sets down this reluctents on our hero's part
to write aut certain things, cot to daterade him, but to alert desk
end field officers that if thay must have a certain report by a cartala
tire, and thay vert it in writing, thay must be firm. For example,
after the second scoting in the develop catal series, tha instructor
saids "I must have that report first thing in the cerning. Do you
uet to take tira out from this afternoca's training sassion to do itt
And, to already raported above, FHOME preferred to save the training
tics and ha ansvered "I will sate time to write it". In this cas0,
tinn vas of the essence becausOTELQUIST had to ses the report bafore
the next resting. 5 sua uy this itaas when Bild feals that an oral
керсть за едegunte ho finds it a little difficult to bring himself to
find tien to cake a written report. Told definitely that he must write
report and given a deadlins, he costs the deadline and the report La
everything it should be.

12. His reports on his recruitment meetings, ir. Suact said, vere
dzpollent to juging to cocolwins, no padding, no misinterpretations,
το cntcsions.

13. De surveillance, tera captain, reading is report on his
ectices during the countersurveillance carcises, marvelled at the
cocpleteness, total eccuracy of description of the surveillats PЮТЕ
had made, including their agra (but always sada each sen an inch or
schorter then the ectual height which Pond sumitted ba does
cciciently), and the total recall of every com, every streat crossing,
Byer coapace direction. (Im the first countersveillezco exercise,
syoung co Ft without a monent's prior notice, he rade ons of his
twe purveillants. In the second one, with plenty of tics to prepare,
heads all three of them. These wore the different tazas frea the
J. Concluding his amiration of Rist
reporting, the surveillance toan captain said to the instructor's You
should be very proud of hin".

WOBONE
4. In both exercises, the surveillance teaza criticized the
rapidity of Filia's sovements. He walks very repidly from place to
place, then spands time to browse in a book shop. Then off again at
a high rate of spoed to his next stop. They also criticizsi his looking
both seye wile crossing a one way street. They felt it rade hin appear
tall scascious, base are a typical Hos Yorker's habits. the bestructor
elss & Eca Ecater, 18 guilty of the identical actions. We are highly
kiretia in car movenants and as for locking both ways whilo crossing a
czo-ray, atreat, wa follow the old Marina Capa adages "Mere's abmys
cca 8.9.3. this don't cut the word". Dy whoarest coincidence, م
tho fzstustor uns en his way to the saltsito to deliver the surveillancs
tem'a apart, to violatos his own rule of looking both says in crossing
a caomy stroot end vas bouled over by a hippie ca a loaded bike--
ping the wrong way. Caly the large heavy fila case the instructor
uns carrying kogt him from being knocked flat.

Komertheless, FROM is now fully cognizant of the eppearance
Aut his actices create and will watch it in the future.

Cas lest note ca the counter aurveillance exercisesi Fa
chaze his positions well and he concuflaged bis acticas beautifully.
Coloso instructor called the surveillance taza for a quick
fubicks the first exercice and caught the zon just as they returned
ta wasr offico. Thay got on different phones for a three way conversation.
They zoparted ons incident as followse to rapid vao PiCIA's movesats,
that a be not a friend of his, he hardly paused to spock with hiu,
Juu waved his oil". The accond surveillants "Tio, it didn't look lika
this at all, to mo. To ze it looked like this malen-looking paraa
sto: Fits and sated him for directions and Fic3 cave thes and just
at his business". PECE's om report, thich he wrote up beftra
De acserved mout the tuo different interprosutions of the incicnats
ended in for the Museua which I haua perfectly well is on 55th
Etreste turned sound as he pointed south to 55th Street and spotted..
the goat sea in the grey amit, zos holding his hat in his hand".

o I stomed a foreign-looking can, apparently Indian in crigin
zer Yot it was far enough many from the thited Nations building to lessen
the chances that FICHE himself and his putative diplomat target vould
ba spotted by friends or acquaintances. His choice for the next masting
tay at an Impressively nezad now restaurent near the Lincoln Center
for the Performing Arts on the Hust side of town. This restaurant vas
Located in the safeaite complex. No vas thus abla very soothly to
Invite his agent to the cafesite fras the restaurant for the recruiting
pitch.

20. did very wall in executing two recomition meetings end
to brush pacsos. lis had no time to write his own coco exarcis38
(cs stated, ho vas elle to write un caly ons dead drop cosmo plan)
to be a given como pless written by another traines. To give Dis
variety, he ves alternately the higher and the lover echelon, altanately
eccepted and made the hand-off.

21. In operational and intel reports, he did very vell. Ha very
successfully separated the operetional fros the intel info and the
source comments from the positive intelligence.

22. Instructor's Observation: FOR is a promisan, both es en
Individual and as an operator, while he was very discreet about it,
Yury cirouaspect, ha did, nevertheless, let the instructor know that
batas, en occasion bazm handled with cocothing less than pure genius.
miss liks the previous ita, is noted not to dom-grade File, bia to
alers both desk and field officera that this con, being very surs,
psitive, Gefinite and etrang, hopes to be handled in a canner that
would have those ezse words apply.

23. sunt A very good man.

24. In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the training,
to would appreciate a dotailed evalustion report in July 1973 frea the
ficla station. This report should indicate the extent to which the
training has made the traince a more useful eni offective asses.end
sbould evaluate the perforace in each arca of traocraft in wich
training was conducted, nezativa pa well as positive comments are
colicitea. De field statica's report should also include the treinsg'
comments. Please ask the field station to slug the report Ein
СЕ/1/law. Con roccipt of the report at Headquarters, plese
forvera a copy to the undersigned.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF WOVOLD
SECRET/RYBAT

18 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with QRPHONE/1

1. I met with QRPHONE/1 for much of the 12th of July
and wearing two hats. Wo first went through the third phase
of the training exercise in which I had been playing the role
of an agent prospect whom he was to assess and recruit, and then
later in the OTR safehouse I identified myself as the Headquarters
officer responsible for his project. Incidentally, he did an
excellent job in all three phases of the training exercise and
did particularly woll on the recruitment itself. QRPHONE/1 is
clever, imaginativo, has an excellent grasp of this espect of
tradecraft and handled himself particularly well in a complex
and changing training scenario.

2. As the Headquarters staff officer responsible for his
project, I described in dotail the reasons for the long, sorious
look at his performance these last several months, the changing
intelligence and operational requirenents we face, and the care-
ful scrutiny he had been given as we began to map out new direcс-
tions for him, all of which ended with this advance four-week
training program, testing, and evaluation and substantive
briefings. 'He said he was a bit confused by the WOMUSE brief-
ing of last week so I explained how that tied in with this evening's
planned discussion on the China program.

3. Ve discussed his itinerary, personal plans and the
pacing of the next several months, all of which were clarified
to his satisfaction.
a. He will be debriefed on 24 July at 1000 hours at
the OTR safesite in NYC following his return from the
operational trip around the country.

b. I will meet hin for the final operational briefing
session at 1000 hours on 26 July in the same OTR safesite.
Loi depart New York the night of 26 July
on the 8:00 p.m. TWA flight to London.

d. This will get him in London in time for a
previously scheduled ops meeting with PAUPEROS on
27 July. He leaves on 1 August for a one-month
vacation touring cost of Europe with his family and
spending one week in Halta.

4. Before the arrival of DAITCHMAN ve discussed other
operational nattors as follows:

His friend in New York City, Richard Ward,
(Apt. 11K, 372 Central Park West) recently returned
from Hanoi and Paris with the manuscript of a new book
written by Cambodian Prince Nordom Sihanouk titlod
"Hy Var with CIA." Sihanouk gave the manuscript to
Wilfred Burchett who gave it to a North Vietnaneве
friend to give to Ward. Ward was asked to find an
American publisher and he, in turn, asked for CRPHONE/1's
help. Burchett is an old friend of Ward's and stays
at his apartment whenever he visits New York. The
manuscript has already been given to a publisher in
Europe. QEPHONE/1 asked if we would be interested in
a copy. I told him to get one if he could do so
without straining his cover.

His friend, Lyle Stuart, the publisher, has
been trying to buy the American branch of the Oxford
University Press, and apparently is about to consummate
the deal. He offered QRPHONE a job as his European
representative if the deal goes through.

c. Per TEUTSCHMAN request I asked QRPHONE to give
his instructor a copy of the long list of names and
organizations given to him by Sibecho. Also per Ken's
request, and in answer to my question, ORPHONE said he
received the magazine published by the Turkish party
in Collards Book Shop in London.

5.From 5:00p.m. until a little after midnight on
13 July, DALTCHWAN of FB Division briefed QRPHONE/1 in sub-
stance on the STFLIMFLAH program, our interest in having
QRPHONE/1 pursue such a role, and explained the great amount
of dreary work that would be involved in learning the communist
dialectic-thoroughly if the whole venture were to be success-
ful. I will make no effort to condense these seven hours

of ethereal discourse, but QRPHONE was fascinated, captivated
by it and clearly interested Al pursuing that long murky
path to "enlightenmont." did an outstanding job in
setting the stage, describing the target, and then explaining
step by step how he and CRPHONE/1 and PAUPEROS would work
together as the operation proffessed. Regarding QRPHONE'S
upcoming trip in the U.S. / explained exactly how
CRPHONE should act as he meets each of his friends and how
he should develop his new-found "interest" in studying
Marxist-Leninism as he nests with those various people.
QRPHONE was very responsive, took notes, had ideas of his
own, but more importantlyT every appreciative of the
tactical advice that / described. QRPHONE/1 will meet
the following people over the next ten days.

Richard Ward in New York City.
Libel Bergman in Newark (on three different
occasions)

Benjamin Blake, Hilton Henry and a fellow
named Boggs in Dotroit (he's with NAR).

Don Wright, Herb Block, and Sidnoy Lens all
in Chicago.

LPWEAKLY/1 and family in Chicago

Davida Fineman and Saul Landau in San Francisco.

The Martin Luther King Foundation in Atlanta.

6. All of the above were carefully chosen because of
who they were, what organization or philosophy they repro-
sented, or their interest in the Chinese, and the extent to
which the whole would knit together and form a viable base
which QRPHONE can use as a springboard when he returns to
London.PR DATTCHE PATTUrged QaPHONE to join, or in some cases rejoin,
Haoist study groups in London including the one conducted
by Manchanda. The role that QRPHONE should play with these
groups, as well as others in Europe who wero singled out
during various parts of the conversation, was also spelled
out in detail. By the end of the evening CRPHONE had clearly
in mind what it was all about, what he should do next and
the purpose of our reconvening on the 24th and 26th to decide
finally what it all amounts to.

7. I asked ORPHONE to call on the sterile line
using the "Mr. Stanley" indicator on Monday afternoon,
21 July. This is simply to check in and let us know he is
on the way and how things havo come thus far. He calculated
that ho needed another $500.00 for the U.S. portion of his
overall trip since LCPIPIT apparently had not anticipated
this when he was given his original advance. I arrangod
through the good offices of` in New York to get $500.00
to QRPHONE today.

8. QRPHONE asked if we had any intelligence require-
ments for his to pursue while he is in Halta. I said Kon
would brief him on those requirements on the 24th of July
if we had any. Incidentally, QRPHONE mentioned that Libol
Bergman comes to New York City overy Thursday and told
QRPHONE that he could be reached on telephone number 265-2500.
ORPHONE said if we cared to we might want to track that
number and see where Berguan hangs out.

SECRET/RYBAT

Andrew F. TELQUIST

31 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Final Contact with QRPHONE/1 in New York City

1. As arranged previously, I met with QRPHONE/1 at
the WOMOLD safesite in New York City from 1000 hours to
1230 26 July. The meeting was intended to wrap up loose
ends, convey our decision to pursue the STFLIMFLAM program
(providing QRPHONE/1 himself was amenable), and to make
clear that we expect measurable operational progress within
the next year.

2. Although QRPHONE/1 had been debriefed on 24 July
by other Headquarters officers regarding his trip around
WOCORK, I asked him to review it again for my information
so I could put it clearly in perspective as it related to
our plans for him in the coming year. I'll not bother with
the details here because such have already been written for
the record elsewhere, but suffice it to say that QRPHONE/1
was both pleased and relieved at the reception he got fron
his old contacts because of the reflection these receptions
had on his own bona fides. The allegations of his BKTRUST
affiliation which had floated through Europe were never
mentioned by his WOCORK contacts; on the contrary at least
one of them urged QRPHONE/1 to return soon to WOCORK because
this is where the action is. This same individual gave
QRPHONE reading materials on the Communist dialectic and
urged him to study them closely. This greatly impressed
QRPHONE because it showed how accurate were the briefings
given him by the Headquarters STFLIMFLAMN officer and
demonstrated that we knew our tactics.

3. I then reviewed with QRPHONE/1 the reasons for our
long close scrutiny of him and his performance these last
several months followed by our selection of him for advance
training, testing, and redirection in the strong hope we had
that he would accept this new task because of its priority
importance to our national collection requirements.

QRPHONE/1 his impressions of it all, his reaction to the
STFLIMFLAM proposal, and whether he would accept its
demanding obligations. QRPHONE said he certainly would
and that he found it a real challenge to his intellect and
his operational skills. The tedious study of the dialectic
would not deter him. His only concern was how he should
actually play it as he developed relationships with
appropriate party members and, ultimately, the Chinese in
SMORANGE. I pointed out he needn't concern himself with
the last point because that would be part of the purpose
of the ten-day training program in SMORANGE in September
which would be given him by the Headquarters STFLIMFLAM
officer. I said the training would require total emersion
for ten days straight, probably in some secluded beach
house on the coast where all involved could reside full
time. He said this would present no problem cover-wise;
he would simply tell his family he had gone to the continent.
I said that PAUPEROS would be working out the details of
this with him, probably after his return from vacation.

4. I said that given QRPHONE/1's past performance,
his credentials with the radical left, and his apparent
interest in vigorously pursuing the STFLIMFLAM program we
expected to be able to measure in six to eight months the
likelihood of his being able to achieve all the STFLIMFLAM
objectives based upon the progress he would have made by
then with his Chicos contacts. Should it appear that the
STFLINFLAM operation would not succeed we would be discussing
alternative courses of action with him by the end of the
year. He did say that of all the countries in Europe where
his STFLIMFLAM and radical left potential is probably the
best, Italy would be first and Denmark second.

5. I told QRPHONE/l that his meeting with PAUPEROS
had been moved to 31 July as he requested, reviewed his
European vacation plans and his Malta trip and wished him
the very best of luck. At this point QRPHONE/1 certainly
seens willing and able aggressively to pursue our operational
plans. We shall see.

Andrew F. TELQUIST

WOGEAR Review of African Liberation Movements

In general, the author has done a reasonably good job
describing the Historical development of the various African
liberation movements, especially when one considers the com-
plexity and number of splits and mergers that have occurred
within and among the movements over the years. There are
several glaring inaccuracies, however, in the author's con-
clusions about the current position and effectiveness of the
several Portuguese African liberation movements.

Regarding Angola, the author characterizes the MPLA as an
ideologically-oriented group (1.e., Soviet doctrine) that has
failed to grasp and utilize to its advantage the tribal realities
that exist in Angola. The author fails to acknowledge, however,
that the MPLA has had some success, albeit limited, in building
a movement that is national and multiracial in character rather
than tribally oriented. Despite its urban intellectual leader-
ship, the MPLA has had some success winning local support in
rural eastern Angola.

By contrast, GRAE ranks a poor second. From inception,
its primary base of support has been the large Angolan refugee
population of Bakongo tribesmen who live in southwestern Zaire.
Although the organization has won some support among Bakongo
kinsmen across the border in northwestern Angola, it has failed
to broaden its base because of its thinly disguised regional
and tribal make-up. Moreover, Roberto's unwillingness to
delegate authority or compromise have produced chronic disputes
at the leadership level. The author's conclusion that GRAE is
a formidable force to be reckoned with in the future of Angola
is contradicted by the fact that the MPLA is by far the
largest and most effective of the three nationalist groups
opposing the Portuguese in Angola.

The present FRELIMO leadership does not appear to be in the
state of disarray in 1972 that the author believes it is.
Although some differences undoubtedly persist, the present
leaders seem to have closed ranks somewhat since the departure
of Simango in late 1969. For the present, any internal squabbles
that may exist are not noticeably affecting FRELIMO's fighting
abilities inside Mozambique.

RHODESIA, SOUTH WEST AFRICA, SOUTH AFRICA

Reasonably straightforward and up to date. No serious
deficiencies.
Direct Psychological Assessment
of
ORPHONE/1

The psychological evaluation consisted of an extended inter-
view and the JBMINIMUM test. His intelligence as measured by the
JBMINIMUM is within the Bright Normal range by U.S. standards.
The test scores were not as high as would be expected in compari-
son to his behavior and life style. The discrepancy could be due
to the fact that he suffers from inferiority feelings and is
working overtime to compensate. He gets considerable satisfaction
"and mileage out of his authorship; however, it takes a great deal
of his energy in order to discipline himself enough to write a
book. His talents are much more in the field of journalism.
Mentally alert and very perceptive, he is aware of what is happening
around him. These same traits would serve him well as an access
agent. However, his reporting may reflect some distortions because
his memory is not strong, and he tends to remember those events
that are of interest to him. He naturally has good manual-
manipulative skills, plus a practical bent that should enable him
to easily and effectively learn and carry out tradecraft techniques.

Emotionally, Subject is fickle. "Out-of-sight - out of
mind," describes the way he relates to others. The reason for
this is that one of his primary needs is to be accepted and
liked. Most of his life has been spent seeking acceptance, and
because he is emotionally dependent he rapidly and intensely
becomes involved. If separated from someone with whom he is
involved, he has difficulty maintaining loyalty, and begins to
look for another way to satisfy his needs.

An important fact which his case officer should remember is
that he is not motivated by an ideology, but rather by the person
who represents a particular ideology. His relationship with his
case officer is of prime importance. To ensure his loyalty to
the organization and consistent performance, he will need intense
handling. The problem is that he may balk since he resists
authority. He has the tendency to think that he knows it all,
as witnessed by his never completing a degree.
Page 2
ORPHONE/1

Subject is not by nature a role player, and it would not
be operationally advantageous to have him switch roles, for he
cannot psychologically handle role playing over a period of time.
¡He has worked hard to establish an identity for himself, and could
not cope as effectively with a new one.

Conclusion:

Subject is a bright, extremely ambitious, and aggressive
Individual who appears to be motivated to work for the Agency
by three needs: 1) a need to be accepted and liked; 2) a material-
'istic need; and 3) as a vehicle to be vindictive to former loyal-
ties, i.e., the far left or radical movement in this country.

Though he is capable of switching loyalties, and his life
history attests to this fact, it is very difficult to predict his
future behavior since so much depends on his life circumstances.
One statement that can be made is that, given his personality,
It is very doubtful if he would return to his former allegiances.
But if not personally involved with someone from this agency
who can give him acceptance and support, he is likely to look
elsewhere for his need satisfactions.

PAS Formula: 14 (Etutc Rctct Uoo) Lt

Notes on QRPHONE by Harvey B. DAITCHMAN

1. Revolutionary Image: Discussed briefly how it is
obtained. Pointed out there is a pattern to it which is dis-
cernable among revolutionaries. It is usually issue oriented
in the beginning, the war being one of the key issues, and it
gradually evolves into a desire to engage in practical activities
which usually expressed best on a continuing basis through work
in an organization. Also connected with this process is the
gradual development of a different "outlook." It is usually a
mixture of idealism and Marxism-Leninism-socialism-Mao Tse-tung
thought. Usually unstructured but developing.

It is possible in this stage to move from one group to
another without any particular approbation being attached for
this transience. This is particularly so if one starts way
outside a M-L-ist group and moves inward towards it. Quite
a different thing to start in a M-List group and go out.

Also in development of a new outlook one comes to study
a variety of revolutionary literature. This can take one into
different areas, anarchism, GW advocacy, revolutionary nihilism,
socialism, Marxist-Lenism, etc. However, to get to latter
it must be done logically.

2. Tightly Structured Op: Emphasis upon tight, controlled
contacts which seek to accomplish a specific purpose--collection
of info not necessarily one nor always one. Purpose is to lay
ground work for future developments. Purpose to establish certain
contacts which can be later used in either positive or negative
fashion. Structured conversation is also essential. It too
should seek to accomplish something, directed so as to be useful
to future development of op: e.g., desire to have an explanation
for an action to be undertaken later--so bring up in conversation
with someone so that can