104-10306-10024
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR RECOD
OBJECT: Cuba

28 January 1963

Jele-
Spec.bep
minutes

The Executive Committee met on Friday, January 25th, and
approved the new policy as outlined by the Coordinator.

Dacisions bearing on covert operations were reached as follows:

1. The Special Group will have the responsibility of
continuing review of the program for infiltration of covert intelli-
xence agente. Progress will be regularly checked with the Group.
Higher authority made a particular point of saying that, although
the objective of 'intensified covert collection" is approved,
nonetheless, CIA should not feel it is under pressure to "get good
men killed" in the process. In other words, the advantages to be
gained from intensliled collection must be continually weighed
against the risks. This will be done by the Special Group.

2. The Attorney General expressed great interest in the
extent to which key members of the Brigade will be brought into
planning and current operations. He thought that they should be
thoroughly consulted on plans for intelligence teams and he indicated
that he will personally keep an eye on progress in this regard.

3. The use of propaganda balloons was disapproved at this
time. It apparently was not clear as to exactly how far CIA should
go in maintaining its current capability for launching balloons.

******

At Mr. Bundy's suggestion I had a long talk with Cottrell on
Saturday, the 26th. We discussed in particular the method of operation
with the Brigade. I pointed out some of the security aspects that
would have to be watched, but expressed the opinion that a workable
method of operation could be devised so that the Brigade leaders
could provide motivation and could feel a sense of participation,
without having to bring them so closely into the details of target
areas, dispatch, commo, etc., as to constitute a security hazard.
I cited the Agency's experience with the NTS as a possible guideline
in this regard. We agreed that after Mr. PitzGerald returns from
Panama, about the first of February, the three of us should discuss
this matter further.

TAP

TOP STUTT
SECRET
EYES ONLY

8 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 8 February 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hilsman,
and Mr. FitzGerald

1. Agent Operations in Cuba

Mr. FitzGerald discussed with the Group the CIA paper of
6 February which recommends a total of five maritime infiltration/
exfiltration operations during the next thirty days.

He emphasized that these black operations are entirely of an
intelligence nature and that they should be viewed only as a
supplement to intelligence coverage accomplished by other means.
In the latter connection, the point was made that information ob-
tained by agents of this type can contribute to the targeting of
aerial reconnaissance sorties and can assist in making the process
of photo interpretation more meaningful..

Mr. FitzGerald also emphasized that the teams now proposed
are comprised of only one to three agents. He noted that the agents
available are particularly well motivated, and that those whose
primary motivation was toward action rather than intelligence have
been weeded out.

The consensus of the Group was that while agent operations of
this type cannot be considered as a primary or major source of
intelligence, nonetheless this type of operation is consistent
with U.S. objectives in the Cuba situation and that approval of
these five should be recommended.

1963)

2.
(These missions were approved by higher authority, 9 February
98
Subsidy to Venezuelan Newspaper

Mr. McCone reported on financial arrangements which have been
made in connection with subsidy of the Venezuelan newspaper, which

7
SECRET
EYES ONLY
Уте
SECRET
EYES ONLY
- 2 -

98
was approved at the meeting of 31 January 1963. He said that Agency
funds on deposit with the Morgan Guaranty, which will serve as
collateral against the bank's loan to the new entrepreneur of this
newspaper, would draw interest at 4%, while the purchaser will pay
the commercial rate of 6%. The Chairman expressed satisfaction
with this arrangement: 9.

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

Japanett
Thomas A. Parrott
SECRET
EYES ONLY
Ymc
- SECRET
EYES ONLY

28 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 28 February 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone

1.
Colonel Steakley was present for Items 1-3
98
Reconnaissance - DOD Monthly Forecast

The Group had no objection to the BOW TIE missions as planned.
Mr. McCone alluded, however, to the unexplained military activity
that is going on in eastern China, and asked about the capability of
BOW TIE to check on this. It was pointed out that the BOW TIE
program consists of comparatively shallow penetration which would
probably not reach the kind of military target Mr. McCone had in mind.
Accordingly, Colonel Steakley was asked to confer with COMOR to find
out whether requirements exist for deeper penetration in the area,
and if so to bring in an appropriate proposal to the Special Group.

In connection with project AMOS, Mr. Johnson read a message from
Lord Home to the Secretary of State. Home said that while the RAF
and the Air Ministry will be glad to have the advantage of the
intelligence resulting from the mission, nonetheless this represents
a departure from the previous pattern of flights in the area.
Additionally, the flight will, according to Home, go closer to the
coast than the RAF is allowed to go. He was willing to agree to the
mission, provided it was not viewed as establishing a precedent, and
on the stipulation that Secretary Rusk personally accepts the risk
entailed. Mr. Johnson said that Secretary Rusk is willing to accept
this risk.

The Group approved AMOS, subject to check by Mr. Bundy with
higher authority, and on the understanding that the Group will have
a chance to take a last look at it shortly before the scheduled date
of 19 March. Colonel Steakley was also asked to report to the Group
on the results of the mission. (This mission was later approved by
higher authority.)

In this connection, Mr. McCone commented on the great importance
of obtaining intelligence on the Soviet low-level SA-3 system. The
Group agreed that thisis a high-priority requirement, in order to
to]
!
SECRET
EYES ONLY
!
Утс
- SECRET
EYES ONLY
-2-
?
!
98
provide a basis for estimating accurately the chances for successful
Tow-level penetration of the USSR. Mr. McCone will arrange to have
a USIB paper prepared on this subject.

The Group noted the DESOTO destroyer voyage, which will now in-
clude a courtesy call at Djakarta.

Colonel Steakley told the Group that CINCLANT has tried out the
MELON PATCH photography missions, operating under the ten mile re-
striction which was laid on by the Special Group at its meeting of
31 January. It is now apparent to CINCLANT that adequate photography
of the desired areas cannot be obtained at that distance. The Group
agreed that the ten mile restriction should remain in force. In
coming to this conclusion they made the point that in case of real
need for this type of coastal intelligence, there would be adequate
time to obtain it after an emergency actually was in effect; and
further, any such information collected now would have to be up-dated
before operations could be mounted based on it.

The revised RED DOG missions, to be flown in C-47's, and the
proposal to fly some BRASS KNOB missions from the Canal Zone, were
approved.

Colonel Steakley was asked to give the Group a report on the
results obtained from the last mission into the Sea of Okhotsk.

Colonel Steakley told the Group that the JCS will make no
recommendation on low-level coverage of Laos (ABLE MABEL) until after
the results of the Agency effort explained below.

The Group made a point of saying that although the time is not
now propitious for covering the COMOR priority targets in Cuba with
low-level flights, it may well prove desirable to do this on fairly
short notice. Therefore this matter should be kept under constant
review by operating elements.

98
2. Reconnaissance CIA Monthly Forecast

Mr. McCone told the Group that the weather has suddenly opened
up over North Vietnam and that the mission to cover that area, via
Laos, which was approved by the Special Group on 17 January, will
actually be launched tonight. He said that after this is completed
the airplane will be ferried to Taiwan in accordance with the dis-
cussion at the meeting of the 25th of February, transiting Laos on
the way. Mr. McCone also reported on the recent successful GROSBEAK
mission.
SECRET
EYES ONLY
Утс
SECRET
EYES ONLY
-3-

3. Removal of Soviet Troops
98
Mr. McCone said that we still do not know very much about the
removal of Soviet troops from Cuba. Mr. Bundy stated that the
official government position is that available information is in-
sufficient to justify any change in the estimated figures of Soviets
on the island. He added that no change can be made in these figures
without specific approval by higher authority.7

4. Testimony on Cuba

Mr. McCone commented on the difficulties encountered by
officials who are required to testify before Congressional committees
on the Cuban situation, in light of the propensity of these committees
to question witnesses on statements made by other officials. Mr.
Bundy recognized that this is a problem and said that in an attempt
to alleviate it he has had several documents brought together. These
include a compendium of the President's remarks on the subject; the
DCI's report to the Killian Committee; a report by Assistant Secretary
Martin; and most recently, the CIA-prepared paper on subversion in
the hemisphere. He added that the basic responsibility for co-
ordinating public statements rests with the Secretary of State.

5.
[ Italy
-
98
Status Report on Election Operation

The Group noted that this project is progressing, but is still
in its early stages.7

98
6. Chile - Proposed Political Action

The Group approved the proposal dated 25 February, subject to
approval by higher authority. (This was later granted.)7

7. Agency Operations in Latin America 98

Mr. Gilpatric inquired as to the feasibility of mounting
intelligence or other operations against selected military personnel
in Latin America. Mr. McCone said that some of this is being done
but that he will have it studied further.

8. Progress on Cuban Operations

Mr. McCone told the Group that none of the five agent operations
approved by the Group on the 8th of February has been successful.
He noted that there have been a number of aborts due to weather,

SECRET
EYES ONLY
SECRET
EYES ONLY
-4-

failure of equipment, and failure of rendezvous plans. He said
that efforts are continuing to carry out these operations success-
fully, but indicated some unhappiness with the results to date and
the prospects of success. He alluded particularly to the qualities
of the agent personnel.

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY
Japanatt
Thomas A. Parrott
EYES ONLY

14 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL GROUP
SUBJECT: Approval of Cuba Papers

All members of the Special Group have now approved the
following memoranda from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs:

a. "Covert Propaganda to Stimulate Passive Resistance
and Low-Risk, Simple Sabotage," 8 March 1963.

b. "Proposed Infiltration/Exfiltration Operations in
Cuba - 15 March 1963 to 15 April 1963," 11 March 1963.

Japanott
Thomas A. Parrott

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone
EYES GALY
26 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 26 March 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

1.
Dr. Scoville, Mr. McMillan, and Colonel Steakley were
present for Items 1-5.

Mr. Lundahl was present for Item 1.
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 5.
98
Low-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba

In connection with the USIB recommendation for resumption of
low-level coverage of Cuba, Mr. Lundahl showed the Group examples
of the additional information that can be obtained from low-level
photography as contrasted with high-level coverage. This had to do
particularly with identification of materiel, spotting of personnel,
etc.

Mr. McCone emphasized that low-level coverage would give us
additional information on the numbers of Soviet troops and possibly
on Soviet intentions, and similar subjects, but that it would not
represent a qualitative shift in the body of intelligence available.
It would not reveal anything that would be of major security interest
to the U.S. and which could not be picked up by high-level coverage.

Mr. McCone also referred to the progress of certain negotiations
which have been holding up active consideration of low-level photo-
graphy. He said that there are differences of opinion among people
closest to this situation as to what the effect of resumption of such
photography actually might be on the negotiations.

Mr. Gilpatric said that Defense is not convinced of the urgency
of this proposition and would not favor it at this time, unless others
feel that there is an overriding political reason for undertaking the
project. He said that he would prefer to see this capability reserved
for identifying the type of threat that we might otherwise not be
aware of, or used at a time when there was some political advantage to
be gained by low-level flights.7

SECRET
VT'S ONLY
See special minutes
for additional iteni
Утс
SECRET
- 2

98
Mr. Johnson said that the Secretary of State does not believe
that there is any foreign policy reason for mounting the operation
at this time, and in fact the Secretary and other high officials in
the Department feel that from a policy point of view it would be
inadvisable now.

The Group then agreed that the resumption of low-level coverage
would not be recommended at this time, but that it would be kept
under weekly review.

98
2. Reconnaissance, Indonesia

The Group noted the intelligence justification for this proposal
and the political objections to it, and the Chairman agreed to discuss
it with higher authority as an example of a situation where clear-cut
differences of interest exist. He said that if there was any doubt
from that quarter he would have all the principals participate in
further discussion with higher authority.
disapproved by higher authority.)]

3.
[ Peripheral Reconnaissance Operations
(The proposal was later

98
a. Colonel Steakley gave the following brief reports on a
number of peripheral missions:

:
(1) The ELINT coverage of the Sea of Okhotsk produced good
results. He said that this area is now so well covered with
radars that consideration should probably be given as to whether
the rules requiring an abort in case of an Al lock-on should be
relaxed.

(2) The AMOS mission, directed against SA-3's in the
Baltic, did not result in any ELINT take from the radars
associated with the SA-3's. He said that some question now
arises as to whether these weapons are in fact SA-3's or
perhaps a later generation of the SA-2.

(3) A DESOTO destroyer mission off the Soviet Maritime
Provinces resulted in Soviet instructions to shut down their
radars when the ship approached.

b. The Group approved four missions (UNA, DANIEL, FLOYD and
GEORGE) using new ASD-1 equipment. This includes two in the Baltic
area, one in the Black Sea, and one flying from England to the Black
Sea.

SECRET
3/mc
SECRET
EYES ONLY
-3-

4. ELINT Balloons
98

Dr. Scoville gave the Group details of the operation in the
Sea of Japan, employing balloons against TALL KING radars. He said
that the results indicate that perhaps these radars are not as
efficient as we had thought, but that further analysis is proceeding.7

5. Covert Operations, Cuba
a. Procedures

Noting that the shipping sabotage paper of 19 March had
not been considered by the Cottrell committee as a body, the Special
Group asked that such proposals be considered in that way before
submission to the Special Group. In passing the recommendations to
the Special Group it should be indicated what the position of the
various Cottrell members was, just as is done in the case of political
projects coordinated with State and the ambassador. Each member of
the Cottrell committee would see to it that his own agency staffed
the paper in the normal way for submission to the Special Group.

b. Sabotage of Shipping

The substance of the 19 March paper was then considered.
Mr. McCone raised a question as to exactly what the U.S. objective
now is in this and related fields, and questioned in addition whether
we may be trying to manage exile groups too closely..

There was some discussion as tothe actual value of carrying
out the proposed sabotage, that is whether enough damage could be
done to hurt the Castro regime seriously. The consensus of the Group
seemed to be that activity of this kind should not be undertaken if
it could be expected to yield only small gains, but that if its
effect would be really significant then that would be a different
matter.

Considerable doubt was expressed about the proposal for
sinking and setting fire to ships. None of the members felt that
there was any particular objection to the use of abrasives or other
damaging materials.

The proposal was then remanded for group consideration by
the Cottrell committee. This committee is asked to look at the pro-
posal in relation toeeverything else that is going on or is under
serious consideration, in order to assess its true potentiality.
Mr. FitzGerald was authorized to modify the proposal to the extent
EYES
Ymc
-4-

of considering possible unilateral action as opposed to using an
exile group as a cutout. Mr. Bundy will explore exactly what the
feeling of higher authority is with respect to relations with exile
groups.

c. Additional Programs

Mr. Johnson mentioned the activities of the NTS, which has
been broadcasting in Russian to the Soviet troops over Radio Caribe
in the Dominican Republic. Mr. FitzGerald agreed to add this to the
possibilities listed under radio broadcasting.

Mr. Johnson questioned the extent to which proposition b.,
involving inciting Cubans to commit aggressive acts against Soviet
personnel, is in accord with current objectives.

-
On the matter of propaganda balloons, most members of the
Group felt that these might be useful in connection with the particular
target mentioned
the May Day concentration which is expected in Havana.
Mr. Johnson had some reservations which he wanted to check out further
in the Department. It was agreed that should State take a favorable
view, then the matter would be presented to higher authority.

As to the request for Defense training facilities, Mr.
Gilpatric asked that Mr. FitzGerald discuss the needs with Secretary
Vance. Mr. FitzGerald said that the principal requirement which can-
not be met in CIA facilities is adequate space for weapons training.
Members of the Group recalled that the objection to the use of Defense
facilities at the time it was presented during the MONGOOSE period,
was that this would make it difficult, if not impossible, to deny
official U.S. involvement. Mr. Bundy said that he saw no objection
if the purpose was to train Cubans for eventual open hostilities, but
thought that in this case the objective might be better achieved by
having them undergo regular U.S. Army training.
agreed.

The other members

Japanolt
Thomas A
Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone
TOP SECRET
(CLASSIFICATION)
(BYE-12693-63
Cy 1

Handle Via Indicated Controls

(BYEMAN)

WARNING
This document contains information offecting the national security of the United States within the mean.
ing of the espionage lows U. S. Code Title 18, Sections 793 and 794. The law prohibits its transmis.
sion or the revelation of its contents in any manner to an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any
manner prejudicial to the sofety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of ony foreign govern.
ment to the detriment of the United States. It is to be seen only by U. S. personnel especially indoc-
trinated and authorized to receive information in the designated control channels. Its security must be
maintained in accordance with regulations pertaining to the designated controls.

This document contains information referring to Projects:

CORONA
IDEALIST
(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET
4 April 1963
ar

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 4 April 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hughes

Dr. Scoville and Colonel Steakley were present for
Items 1 and 2.
Commander Yates was present for Item 1.

96
1. DOD Peripheral Reconnaissance

The DOD monthly forecast of peripheral reconnaissance activities
was noted. Special note was taken of mission ULCER GULCH, which all
members approved. Consideration of YANKEE PASHA was deferred for at
least a week because of certain points raised by the Secretary of
State. Mr. Bundy said that he himself would normally have no objection
to this operation but that conditions at the moment make it in-
advisable to go ahead at this precise time.

Colonel Steakley was asked to brief the Group on the special
navigational safeguards which would be used in the YANKEE PASHA
operation, at a later meeting when Mr. Johnson could be present.

Commander Yates briefed the Group on certain submarine operations.
Mr. Gilpatric undertook to assure himself that adequate procedures
exist for notifying members of the Special Group and other key officials
in the event of an untoward incident.7

2. Reconnaissance Missions, Far East 98

Mr. McCone briefed the Group on the results of two recent missions.
He pointed out that there are now no authorizations outstanding for
high-performance reconnaissance in the Far East.

The recommendations in the NRO paper for the Special Group, dated
4 April, were approved with the exception of 7. b (Laos), which was
deferred for later consideration, Mr. McCone agreed to mention these
approvals to higher authority, but it was felt that no further formal
approval was required.7
SECRET
EYES ONLY
2-
98
[ All All members of the Group expressed their interest in getting on
with plans for resuming FALCON missions. It was noted that one of the
| principal problems in this area is the question of a base. It was
agreed that we should probably approach this from the point of view
of obtaining a standby agreement with the Indian Government to permit
staging in and out of that country. Dr. Scoville said that a message
had gone out to the field on this point last night. The Chairman
asked that word be sent to the Ambassador that high-level interest
in this proposition does exist in Washington.7
98
3. Status Report on Italian Elections
|
4.
CIA's paper of 1 April was noted.
98
Low-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba

The Group took no action on this subject subject
5.
.
98
Covert Subsidy for Kong Le

At Mr. Hughes' suggestion, it was agreed that CIA should look into
the possibilities of a covert payment to Kong Le.
6.
Le.7
Cuban Operations

The Group recommended approval of the following papers from the
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs:

a. Sabotage of Shipping, 19 March, as amended by a
memorandum from the Deputy Coordinator, 2 April 1963.

b. Russian Language Broadcasts, 2 April 1963.

C.. Propaganda Inciting Cubans within Cuba to Attack
Soviet Troops, 2 April 1963.

Mr. Bundy and Mr. FitzGerald will obtain final approval from
higher authority.

Lap quatt
Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone
EYES ONLY
4/mc
SECRETLY
EYES ONLY

9 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL GROUP
SUBJECT: Status of Approvals for Covert Actions, Cuba

1. Propaganda Inciting Cubans to Commit Acts Against Soviet
Troops

Approved by higher authority, on the understanding that
the propaganda will be non-attributable to the United States.

2. Sabotage of Cuban-Owned Shipping

This was approved by higher authority. It was noted that
the suggestion for external explosive charges had been deleted from
the proposal approved by the Special Group last week. (This will
be considered along with other suggestions in an over-all sabotage
paper, in accordance with decisions reached at the special meeting
of 3 April.)

3. Soviet Language Broadcasts

The Radio Liberty proposition has been approved, with the
understanding that there will be no "opening fanfare" in connection
with the inauguration of the program; if a ceremony is unavoidable
it must be played in a low key. The proposal for a Unidad Revolucion-
aria program is disapproved. The suggestion for intrusion on Radio
Moscow broadcasts is disapproved.

4. Leaflet Balloons

This proposal has been disapproved by higher authority.

Lap analt
Thomas A. Parrott

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY
SECRET
EYES ONLY

11 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 11 April 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. McCone

Dr. Scoville, Colonel Ledford and Colonel Steakley
were present for Items 1 3.
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 4.
98
1. Reconnaissance, Northern Laos

It was agreed that the proposal for this coverage, which was
contained in the NRO paper of 4 April and which was deferred last
week, should be approved.

Mr. McCone mentioned the difficulties which have arisen with
Sarit, noting particularly that he is unwilling to give permission
for the renewed use of Takhli until certain Thai officials return
to Bangkok from Paris, which will be around the 20th of this month.
Mr. McCone mentioned the possibility of basing the aircraft in the
Philippines or Taiwan, if the Takhli possibility should fall through
completely.

The DCI said that if it proves impossible to mount missions
designed to cover the Sino-Indian border, then three will be required
for Laos and North Vietnam. If on the other hand the Sino-Indian
missions are run, then only two additional ones would be required to
cover Laos and North Vietnam, since some of the area could be covered
in the process of the Sino-Indian coverage.

Mr. Bundy will clear these proposals with higher authority.
2. Coverage of Sino-Indian Border Area
98

Dr. Scoville reported on the difficulties encountered in ob-
taining Indian approval for staging aircraft through that country,
stressing the fact that the chief of the intelligence service will
not be available in India until the 16th of this month, and no
decision can be expected before then. He said that the time before
the onset of the monsoon season is getting short. Dr. Scoville said
that efforts are continuing to get staging approval from the Indians,
as well as approval from the Thais to base in Takhli.
!!