104-10174-10037
14/N
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MICRA DER FOR THE RECORD
SECRET
L February 1960
05
SUBJECT: Meeting with (Henry P. Lopez atte Statler-Hilton Hotel on
1 February 1.950 from 1000 hours to 1530 hours.
2. Kr.
(Lopez) Lave
03
03.
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
1. Those present were ..rs. Vidal FP/PA, Alexander Hunter) (Williams)
PP/EAD, Charles Penney (Twiss) WII/PW, and Philip Toomey) (Thompson) H/4/PP.
Drave a report of his contacts in Cuba after receiving
hig notes which were brought up br. (Noel)and given to Hr. (Lopez)by
Coomer Loped said that he had given biographical sketches of
Echevarria, Rasco, Laureano Batista, Martinez Fraga, auben de Leon and
Sanchez Arengo to the Station representative. he had also turned over a
report of Martinoz Fraga on the aims of the Recareracion de la Revolucion.
3. Mr. (Lopez) report was taped and a transcript will be forwarded
to by PP/PA.
5
1. Specific recomendations made by Mr. Lopez Dincluded having
Herbert Matthews go to liavana and try to influence Castro. Kattheus
has a good reputation throughout the 25th of July Novement and could
help in an approach to Castro. A visit by Ei Hurrow to do a broadcast
on Cuba was also recommended. Mr. (Lopez) feels that Castro will be in
power for a long time to core and that we should try to influence him.
He is seriously affected by any defections and these right be encouraged.
Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials.
Two men who were mentioned as ripe for defection are ufo in Hacienda
and Cepero in Comercio. 5 Lopez) also recommended contact with Padre
Alberto de Castro in Caracas. This padre was formerly Didel's instructor.
When Fidel was in Caracas he was scolded by Padre Castro whom Fidel
treated with great respect according to 3osco. The Paare and Fidel spent
about one and one half hours alone together at this time. This priest.
should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. The possibility of
a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Raul is cold ard
mean and the fact that he is Fidel's brother does not carry too much
weight.
SCORET
//PP
:
2
08