14-00000
104-10187-10103
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

10이면
MEMORANDUM
WH/S #64-749
15ctober 1984
CUBAN DEFECTOR
SUBJECT: Operation
24
Briefing in Guatemala ol (Chief of State Peralta)
11
Chief of state 06.08.06,08,24
1. The briefing was held in a small luxurious
government conference room on the afternoon of Friday
October 1964, lasting about 2 1/2 hours. (Chief
Colonel Peralta, Minister of Government Colonel Serrano
and Intelligence Chief Colorel Porres attended for the Guate-
malar.
TWO CIA OFFICERS WERE PRESENT
2. At the request of the
SENIOR CIA OFFICER
prefaced the operational briefing with a brief description
of how the U. S. Intelligence community operates, of the
role of CIA, of the need for compartmentation and security,
and specifically of how the foregoing considerations raice
it imperative for the Guatemalans) to adopt security pre-
cautious which will ensure that the information we provide
and the joint operations we undertake are compartmented
within the Guatemalen government (and, in fact, discussed
by the Guatemalan government exclusively with our re- 24
presentatives in the fisia).)
:
3. Following the introductory remarks outlined
above, I briefed the group on the DGI structura, the PGI
operational techniques, and specifically on DGI aims and
operations in Guatemala The (prealdent)lent close attention
taroughout the briefing and examined the exhibits closely,
including the DGI intelligence requirements for Guatemia) 11
and the (Salvadoran "Caso Zapoto" i ปอ.)
24
4. After the foregoing exposition, I explained
our aima in explotting the information
in this connection! asked for close cooperation
and coordination of activities, promising that wo shall
do our outmost and masing reference to our travel lists
and watch list.
?
من
14-00000
이지
-3-
11
h. The effectiveness of his own actions against
Querrillas in Guatemala) and his determination
to meet violence with violence; "
L. Recogultion of the importance of the information
covered in the briefing and of its exploitation;
2.4
24
1. Reference to the case of the Alexican courier)
working for Quan intelliger so and now detained
Acceptance of security restrictions and عاط
decision to hold the indoriantion to those present.
T. In replyting to the remarka
of Colonel Peralta,
I sald that we appreciate the cooperation of Guatemala in the
OAS and that we shall be mest interested in In the eploitation
of the possibilities la tha present case. I added that the matter
of using force against Otha is a policy watter on salch I was
not competent to comment but that the decisions made by the
United States Coverament are based on careful study of
dstalled information tesliding information on Soviet Intentions
and capabilities.
29
06
8. At the copeiusion of the meeting, (Peralta
asked for a copy of the Draguirements (which he already
had geno over closely) and tous the copy with him to study
Aurther.
:

14-00000
14/
APOTHER
11
5. With reference to case, because
of the developments and plans al Salvador, I explained
driefly the status of the DALTON cardand the possibility
of his being transferred to Guatemala) (This was ta line
with the discugolonial Salvador sich included car
OFFICER
the Crealdent and the President's intelligence 26.08
advisor, Colonel METRAND) In that the Gustemisc!!
government taka no action unless reusested by President 06
RIVERA er Colonel MEDRAN لقضا للعم ALTON(06
la transferred, ous of our people probably would talk to
06 DALTONa (Guatemala)))
06.08
3. The Chief of State Peraita) made a rather
Impassioned speech in which be covered the following points:
a. His own long experience in the OAS, ia Cuba
and in Central Americs;
liis early warninga shant Castro--which
were disregarded;
e. The artant to which Guatemalahas lived
to its obligations in the CAS; to which it has
cooperated in efforts against Castro; and to
which it has looked towari U.S. leadership;
d' The failure of the C. S. to take aggressive
action against Cabs and the need for takies a
hard line, including the use of force in support of
millitary activity by the tree Cubans and the other
American countries;
a. His appreciation that the Soviets will not be
willing to riss a nuclear war over Cuba;
L. Condemnation of Mexico for her dealings with
Cuba, for fatiure to abide by her obligations la
the OAS, and for permittis the Castroites to
operate out of Mexico against other American
countries;
g. The need for action against Mexico;
SECRET
?