1104-10069-10177
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO
ATIN :
FROM:
SUBJECT: ECT:
REF
OCA PRDER ( C
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
Director, Domestic Contact st
OSS (LGrant)
Chief, Miami Field Office
Gordon Cooper and Associates
COA(S) 322/16265-72

1.On 22 June 1972 ve ces at soza Length with Leroy Gordon
Cooper: President, Gocoon Cooper and Associates, Honger One,
Opa-Lucka Airport, Opa-Locke, Florida, à parigheral benefit of
this meeting was the acquisition of additional information concern-
ing Cordon Cooper and Associates (S01) which any have a bearing on
the referenced OOA(S) and possibly on future clandestin clandestine interest
in the organisation.

2. GLA was formed roughly two years ago as an acresces and
irlite management consultant Fira. Cooper stated that the organ
ication may be disbanded shortly because of diengrements he treat
/ Cooper and and of his partners, Mol After. Adlar supposediy in a
stock manipulatar who, Cooper feels, coas clava za spavating cutside
he is and therefore not the type of parses with shan Cooper desires
to associste. Adler has refused to sell his stock in Or and to
disassociate himself with QCA so the firm will probably be allosed
to simply cur ont of business. OCA will be replaced with Gordon Cooper
Consultants Corporation which will be incorporated either in Levada
or the Republic of Panam. The The activitios act will remain the came and
a Miasi office will be maintained
THU

3. In addition to cetivities within his own Firi, Cooper 18-3
méster of the Board of Directors of Casino Nanagement International
CM, Grand Cayman Island CHI is control ad and operated by Edvard
Cellini, Robert (mau) Cellim, and Dino (mm) Cellini and its
ravities center around the establishment and operation of gambling
sastans throughout the world. Cooper claims that he has assured himself that
ONT operates within the limits of US laws even though they are headquartered
In Mero Gaypan chủ that the Cellini brothers, all US citizens, are law
Ledig businessmen operating a legitimate business. He claims that there
relasure of all personnel connected with the organization, an
اليةey is caintained with the US Internal Revenue Service
nopette empletely with the FBI. Cooper frankly stated that
For the use of his name and his ability to capitalize on
agis astronaut daye to introduce CMI to individuals
rnment in countries throughout the world
06772
Bowels Bagel S
14-00000

MIM-096-72

4. Cooper has recently been instrumental in the establishment
of a casino in Istanbul, Turkey, and he is currently assisting in
the negotiations for the establishment of additional casinos in
Ankara and Izmir. CHI now operates a casino in Yugoslavia and is
bidding on the establishment of an additional one in a Yugoslav
Location which Cooper cannot recall. In conjunction with CMI, Cooper
is working on the establishment of a travel club which would, in
addition to offering tour packages to various parts of the world,
offer junkets to gambling casinos. CHI would fund the travel expenses
of those individuals who could be counted upon to gamble heavily at
CHI casinos. As an aside, Cooper cautioned that I has "fantastic"
files on individuals in all paris of the world who are known to be
habitual gamblers. These files include their spending habits, incorr
and outgo and general financial situation.

5. The Haitian airline passibility as reported in referent has
no connection with CMM. Cooper is very interested in the project, is
pursuing it personally and expects to hove soon definite word from
the Government of Kaiti after a trip to Beiti within the next weak of
two. If the deal reaches, fruivien, Copper will be closely associated
in Haiti with one Norman Dupree, a Canadian citizen who allegedly is
the former president of the telephone caspory in Haiti and she has
extremely close ties with the Faitian govern

6.Cooper reiterated and emphasiced his willingness to cooperate
with the Agency in whatever scanner would be cast appropriate. He said
that he felt very strongly about such cooperation and that we should
feel at complete liberty to appreach hin perserally at any time on any
natter of interest to CIA. Bio data is being forwarded,
BM
GRICE E. MAINMARING
DMaldone:jok
23953
14-00000
06772
CONFIDENTIAL