Washington Post
CIA Admits
Working to
Raise Sub
By Timothy S. Robinson
Washington Post Staff Writer
The Central Intelligence Agency
has finally acknowledged publicly
that it was "involved" in the Glomar
Explorer's attempts to raise a sunken
Russian submarine from the Pacific
Ocean floor.
The terse acknowledgement came in
a court document filed in the U.S.
Court of Appeals by the Justice De-
partment two weeks ago. The docu-
ment asked that a suit against the
CIA by a private group concerning
the Glomar's financing be sent back
to a lower court for further hearings.

The filing marks an abrupt change
from the previous position taken by
the Justice Department in the 18-
month-old case that the mere acknowl-
edgement of the CIA's involvement in
the project would be harmful to na-
tional security. Although the CIA's
operation of the project has been re-
ported in numerous publications, the
agency has been adamant in its re-
fusal to say publicly whether those re-
ports were true.
The case brought by the nonprofit
Military Audit Project, which moni-
tors spending by the defense and in-
telligence establishments, has in-
volved an unprecedented amount of
secret court proceedings as the CIA
attempted to prove the need for sec-
recy to U.S. District Court Judge Ger-
hard A. Gesell. The suit seeks the fi-
nancial details of the Glomar project.
For example, Gesell was forced to
issue a secret opinion in the case last
October that even the attorneys in-
volved still have not been able to
read. The opinion was issued in that
secret fashion upon direct orders of
the U.S. Court of Appeals, which in-
structed Gesell to accept secret affi-
davits from high-level government of-
ficials concerning the case.
Public affidavits filed at the time by
former President Ford's top national
security adviser, Lt. Gen. Brent Scow-
croft, said disclosures of the CIA in-
volvement or other details about the
project might prompt other nations
offended by the project to retaliate
against the United States...
Scowcroft said that retaliation
might take the form of "strong meas-
ures" that might "endanger U.S mili-
tary and diplomatic personnel and
businessmen overseas."

The federal government had previ-
ously acknowledged only that the ship
was part of a 1969 classified U.S.. gov-
ernment project "to accomplish cer-
tain secret tasks in furtherance of na-
tional security objectives."