14-00000
104-10217-10000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10 May 1963
!
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Clemard Joseph CHARLES
G
1. On 29 April 1963 Dorothe Matlack, Domestic Exploitation
Bection, ACS, telephoned to the affect that a banker auted ClearA
Joseph Charles bad left Eaiti six daya carlier and had just arrived
in New York. A friend of Charles, aakard Jozepa Dryer, 109 Lakewood
Avenue, best Palm Besch, Florida, had vristen to General Delmar,
forser Co Antilles Command, recommending Carlos as a man of great
interest to the UB Loverseat in view of the ovents in Faiti. Cearles
vas described es Presidant of the Esuc Camerotale, Port en Princs,
Haiti, who is in President Devalier's favor. Kre. Matlack zentioned
that she had alarted Col. Farm Koil in Wied to contest Dryer in
order to obtain more background information and anscemment on
Charles.
2. On 1 May 63 Mrs. Matlack advised the Charice was staying a
the Park Sherrera Hotel, Eav Yeat, and that he hai telaghazad kar
sincs her Caves bai been smplied to his by Dryer. Charles comadored
bar to be his point of contact in Mechingtea. According to Mrs. Hatlant,
Caaries kad appointmesyts to coe Vice President Jernson, Osmator Keating,
Grand Congrera Rogara (Florida). Essever, Carles ves willing to talk
to reprvocatatives of Mrs. Matlock's offios. in. Maslach stated that
the Battian Dask men in Aldi vas ready to go to Eew York to talk to
Caries and invited CIA to sccompany bis. Caries speaks very little
English and a fluency in Freash vos therefas reqsired for the inter
view. Mro. Natlack stated that che mit besale to obtain a Prensa
Linguist frea First Anay, Covester's lalasi, bat bo vould not be
intelligmse officer. It was decided that Jeans Falog, Hay York
Office, to has a knowledge of the Freash lengage vould assenyay
the ACSI regrar Any over. It tas sise érzungppa inst
Balog would Fast the ACSI representative (Captain Rogers) at the Park
Eberstoa Estel share Charlas vas steying.
3. On 2 May 63 Mrs. Matlack reported that Col. Kail bad interviewed
Mr. Dryer in West Palm Beach. Dryer had sypodinted Charles as Dirsetar
of his bank in Eaiti. Charles, according to Dryer, fomarly had no
political ambitions but in view of the current political situation in
Haiti, Charles nov thinks that he way some day be president. Dryer
described Charles as well-conected, politically and financially, c
both sides of the fence in Esiti. He is also a good friend of President
Duvalier. Dryer had given Charles latters of intreduction to Senator
Keating and to other officials in Washington. Charles vanted to see
President Kennedy and indeed had gone to the thite House to arr
for an appointment. He vas vall received by the President's appoirt-
ment secretary and invited to dimmer that evening with the appointment

14-00000
SUBJECT Clemard Joseph CHAMUNG
secretary. Farough a dwaterstanding, however, Charles did not
attend the dinner but want to Few York instead.
4. Charles is travelling, according to Dryer, with a Dean
gealogist nused de Behrenschtlét. de Meirunachilat is associated
with Charles in a baniness vuatere in Fatti sed is trying to arrange
a zesting for Charles with Vice President Jatusom.
5. Ca 3 May 63 Jim Halog talapbaasd to cartes that he had bad a
five-bsur seerdos the previous day with Charles and that he had
oteined both peresnality data and views by Carles on what the
United States cheald do in the current natin sitation. Dies
advised that he was trenarditing tas information to Kashingt
Upon arrival, captes of the taletypes vere tremmitted to ACSI
(Mrs. Astlock), Division, and the Latin America krwash.
6. Ca 6 May 63 Hago Stamta, Bugpert Botach, advised that
Divistes vishad to epast to Charles wad Balog www vebird to arrenge
an appointsant. Fr. katlock talephseed at aggreximately 1725 to
advise that she bed just received a telephone call from tre, da
Mohremschildt csling assistance is cètaining hotel reservations in
Vashington. Upen being told that we had to special mesas of obesin-
ing reservations, Kre. Hatlack stated that she would check with the
State Departmeat Protocol Office to determine vadeh hstels would
admit segro guests. Ere. Matlock finally ande reservations at the
Alkan Teasers. A chock with Jia Balog revealed that he had arranged
for Charles to meet the kil representative in the lobby of the Willard
Hotal, Washington, D. C., at 12:00 esam eni Kay. Attempts to reach
Hrs. Katleck that aftermes term acessful. At 0850, 7 May, a
call vas made to Kru. Ketlack to ecotim that Charles vould be in
Mashington on that day and that arvungarvate had been made for a=
meeting with an Agongy representative for 12:00 room. Hru. Matlock
rstarted that both Mrs. de Rabresechildt end Charice had called bar
tdat jeevious evening to confins a ic Lechon crysininent viis
her. Hrs. Matlask ves concerned that CIA and Army seuld not be
vorking at eress purposes. Bles had received authorization from
ACBI to zast Charles at lisseh and felt that it would not be palitie
for her to vithiraw fras her appetatscent sines Anzy caseidered her
the point of costart with Charles. Meze Stunts informed a Division
of the conflict and praced on the wind the Wii Rivibica
Mrs. Eetlack offered to the artly orafter.
centative declined the offer and regeasted that a Facting later in
representative night mast Charles cai krs. Natlask od mesa and that
the aftemon be eranged. Ars. Matlock believed that das c
that somerec soapny hor.
Flirting instrumtians, she had been placed in the middle in the
itanties free dat she could not greetovaly vithiruv and requested

14-0
ETIAL
-3-
SUBJECT Claward Joseph CHARLES
7. I eat Kre. Matlack in the lobby of the Hotel Willard shortly
before noem, and a few minutes later, Mr. Charies arrived, asocageaded.
by Mr. and Mrs. de Mohreaschilet. He lwached in the restsarent in
the hotel. Hr. do Karenschilet wattomed that he had been born in
Reta, Russia, but during the Falarvik Revolution had been taken to
Poland as a small child. He had spent approximately 30 years la
Folend prior to World War II and bed served in the Palisa Anzy.
Ro alce maticed that he had besa a maber of an ICA Teen to Yugo
slavia in 1957 and while in Belgrade had ust Gasba who was visiting
Belgrada as the time. He kad spoken to Comalla and was invited to
visit Paland, mich invitation bo ked secapted. Als have is ta bellمه
Texas. Me kes & Fab. in grology and bas bad come tesebing aayartenso.
Mrs. Co lickreeschilét vas born in Paring, Chise. For father vas
Rossien and bar asther French, and she is away er has been a f
dasigaar. Mr. is Mahremechilat mentioned test he has krosse Charles
for soustics and that he is a pestar vith kan in a sical basiness
in Haiti.
8. Both Garies and da Kurveasandlát vere sædess to arrang
mmotings with government officials in Washington. I mentioned to
Charlee that a meeting had been arrengi ter kia at a 15 and that a
Mr. Groen vould mast his is the lobby. At 1410 Ers. Matlock, Mr. and
Mrs. de Matremachilas end I departed and Charles remained in the
Lobby vaiting for contact.
9. In the course of the Luzabsen csavarustica, Carles bed
mesticaed to kru. Matlack that ba Gestrei to are a Nz. Wies, AID, te
discuss 63 aid to Faiti. Later that afternoon Ars. Astlock called to
state that the had called the State Departat te pase along Charise
request. Mr. Zegarald (State) kad called her back to pass on the
Haitien Desk man's extreme diepleasure that cayons in the Vatt od States
Governmeat should be in official contact with Charles. The deck an
considered Charies to be close to the Duvalier Coverment, to have
been involved in several shady financial dealings, and in general, to
be an undesirable character. Are. Matlach caked vhether the Agency
had any Lerterest in Charles which would dictate further contest with
Charice.
10. Mayo Sturts checked vita Ni Division and éstermined that as
a result of the meeting with Carles, the ID/P Faition Desk bad no
further place to contact him. I told Mrs. Katlech that our interest
sacred to have been satisfied and that I believed ve sarald disengage
cursalves as gracefully as possible.
i
i
i

14-0
11. Wayne Delson, DD/P Coordinator, called on 7 May to inquire
concerning our involvement in the Charles case. He stated that ACSI
bad called him earlier that day to assure him that ACSI had no direct
Intermat in Charles and that it was acting as an intenssdiary at the
request of General Delmar who had passed the lead to General Pitch.
ACSI vas concerned that due to the mix up in appointments to see
Charles, charges might later be made that ACSI had interferred or
had obstructed CLA ocntact with Charles. I explained to Helson what
had happened and be later called back to state that ACSI was completely
satisfied in the way the matter had been handled.
12. Os 8 May Mrs. Matlack telephoned to advise that the Operational
Branch of ACBI was discomsing the Charles case with DD/P to dstandne
future course of action. She was still capouhet ecncerned over her cva
position in the case since Charles considered her to be the focal poiet
in Washington. I reiterated to her that the matter vas one for eithar
the State Department or the operational elsesnts to handle and that
we preferred to disengage ourselves. Mrs. Matlock sentioned that a
dispatch had been received to the effect that a cousin of Charles van
prominiently mentioned as a successor to Duvalier should the Latter
be overthrom. She was of the opinion that the US goverment should
continue to "play ball" with Charles as a future asset in Haitien
affairs.
Distribution:
Cats - C/tef
1- New York Office
- Support (Stunts)
1- LA Bronch
1- Index (Control)
1- Dep/Coll chrono
AFCsajkowski: acr
A. F. CZAJKOWSKI