104-10171-10229
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
GIN
Chief of "tetion, Fexico
Chief, w
Letters for discussion with Anthony R. PECHAY
on Love of AC16:h to peries
Roma
X
PRIORITI
14-00000
--885
10--11
For PONCHAY
The fallosing is in resme to your request for surry of points test pres
to de clarified in discussions between you and Station hextes on the forthcoming:
DARME OF ANCIGA to Rexico Cię.
24,01
1. Politicsl
A. The requirement that the "overt office will consist of only caree
officiels, the others being "covert", an! tis statement that the presence
of Lorgs 1049 in Mexico should not become known and never nimitted".
Cr. Mix-59, 24 July. (Comments It mull apper lapsible to canly
with this requirement if there is to be an overt office and any i?
publicity in Mexico or elsetare, since the identities and shertsbouts of
all ANCIGAR Kansers vill be a satter of public knowledge.)
JETI-54 that the lexican Coverusest
activities and "plotting to werthru
(Carents Since there is to be an overt
B. The statement in pars 3,
vill not be friendly unless Niv
Cuban Goverment remata covort.
office ned propaganda deparisent and AKRAP DAS bean, and will have so
contines to be, described as trop organized for the purpose a rewering
the CUTRO Ewernment, their recessery propaganda Activities toward مد
and cannot be comert. Could is te molled to apply only to exreement that
no military invasion would be loanches from faxicol)
D
C. Clarification of the words lavoro establised in the follow
ing statement by LIEK: "...way bave to disavου Να από the effort sمحمده
it be established niback in contact with cast in exten (Cant Lace
there will be overtoppet the tere disavor is adiuus.
Last vill. constire its being Getables that is in connect with
AMASPY Certainly ve cau eses the charge vill te pase many times by the
Soulots and Crates.)
01
24
2. Possibility of bowing weting to trieti leverson
Cuban subversivo activities-kastco (para 5, KAI-S53) before amivel
which would unaoubtedly be of assistance in obtaining popular attetal
sympathy for activities.
2. пом
We plan to have As onsale departoent in Mexico, but it will be
depossible for than to operate efectively, or indeed at all, i
continues to tasist on Air activities in bexico "rcontains covertas set
beccain public or press tasse.
We feel a trestadour publicity arive کشیده
be mate siroutons latio Arion at the tier of arrival cili in
tatian Kurso: sweets vill be reedel to a large catert is improving the
public ani polisical climate to all
people to work effecti
"
sico.
Ales, it is hoped statica il re ومع 10 مانه mil
arrive in Nextco soon to produce!
ale, vates vill ostensibly be
imepandant tat ctually will be poll also be gastrical,
১৩oro atic tapes for bronconstice over 21900.
14-00000
Bo-885
3. PM
Recofrerests set forth DIR-40133, dated 15 July. If perutsston could
be obtained for use tole territory, even if saly for Te hours prior and
Curing the coin strike operatia, the project viuld be advanced paterially.
A. o cancur reqatreuent that WICKER contact with Station and with
ANCIGAR bo clandestine. Food Station's assistance in working out mechanies
of these contacts.
248. Session's sivice and assistance neoded an on followingt (1) provision
of fint lateral telephone tape/nite installation coerational data for AFCIGAR
consumption) (2) protection Kunilateral sobe pomos) of ANCIGAR Readers
Against annay agent executive actions) (3) Ent lateral agent surveilluate
to check ou security and loyalty of overt/covert ARCIGAR members) (4) colection
of secure safe sites for housing of Niti senbers, for overt office, and
for covert meting sites.
24
C. Ferican Coverinent capabilities in teras of protection of overt
ANCIGAR SGEbers against ceezy sent executive action operations.
D. Can Station comenication facilities (pouch and cable) be used for
BeCure ANRASP communications between Jessbere in Nexico and those in PIPRIDES
and Loevhere!
Distributions
3. Mexico
August 1960
1- Mexico Desk
1-WH/A/Chrono
244
thout! Amit
OLIVER G. GALDOEED
2/4