14-00000.
104-10174-10064
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
No. 201-253203
TICHIPURA
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, E/IB/8, Richard Long
Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of LOPEZ, Henry P.
for the purpose specified in your request
dated follows
1. Operational Approval is granted for the use of Subject
in Spain (a) to identify, cultivate, and acquire intelligence
from those individuals and groups within Spain who now play, and
can be expected to play in the post-Franco period, a significant
role in determining Spanish domestic and foreign policy, and
(b) to spot and assess individuals within the above group for
possible recruitment by other Station assets, specifically as
set forth in paragraph 3 of the memorandum dated 3 Jime 1968
addressed to CI/CA by AC/E/IB. No other use authorized.
2. It is understood that Subject himself will not attempt
recruitmonts nor will he be required to break his cover.
3. In view of his background, it is recommended that
caution be exercised in dealing with Subject.
4. This cancels and supersedes all previous approvals.
This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.
/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/PERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
Date: 19 August 1960 زه
FORM
SECRET
204253203
fil
14-00000
1 February 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief/E/IB/S
SUBJECT:
REFERENCE:
Project WUBRINY - Possible Operational
Support of Madrid Station Objectives by
Edward G. TICHBORN (P)
OSMA 23, 350 Dated 11 January 1968
1. Per Mr. Long's request, the undersigned on 30 January 1968
discussed with Edward G. TIGHBORN (P) possible support of Madrid
Station objectives as raised in ref. It was confirmed that:
a. WUSALINE/Iberia can be used as an information collection
mechanism in cases where information requirements can be couched
in plausible economic and commercial terms for contractual surveys.
b. TICHBORN can assess and develop selected Spanish contacts
of Madrid Station who may be visiting New York and who desire
introductions in US commercial circles.
c. TICHBORN can develop Spaniards in New York as may be
of operational interest to the Madrid Station. TICHBORN has not
made an effort to develop Spaniards in New York but is willing and
able to do so for any designated as operational targets. If desired,
TICHBORN thinks he can meet the Spanish Ambassador to the U.S.
through a friend, Senator Jose Montoya of New Mexico.
d. TICHBORN feels that he could write an article concerning
leading Spanish industrialists and bankers for publishing in a pro-
minent publication, such as "Life International." TICHBORN
believes that he has excellent bonafides for such a task because
he previously published in "Life International" a four-page spread
on birth control in Latin America. This article was favorably
reviewed. TICHBORN suggested a related article on the popula-
tion explosion in Europe and its effect on business as a possible
topic for interviewing leading Spanish businessmen. TICHBORN.
14-00000
as a result of journalistic collaboration with Katherine Anne
Porter, is represented in New York by a top literary agent,
Monica McCall. TICHBORN thinks that it would take him two
to three weeks in Spain interviewing top Spanish industrialists
and bankers. He would send letters in advance to these targets
informing them of his proposed itinerary, the purpose of his
trip, and enclosing copies of his previous articles with favor-
able reviewer comments. He could be essentially a free lance
journalist or have a business purpose as well. In the latter
connection, it is of interest that following TICHBORN's trip to
Spain, WUBRINY/1 sent a geologist to WUSALINE/Iberia to look
into acquisition of silver properties in Spain. This purely com-
mercial development appears to be a direct result of TICHBORN's
trip and thus enhances TICHBORN's commercial bonafides.
2. It is understood that E/IB/S has a copy of TICHBORN's report
for dispatch to the Madrid Station per ref.
3. Personnel concerned with Project WUBRINY will be glad to
work with E/IB/S in any follow-up to the possibilities noted above.
Je Allen
Gale Allen
DO/CO
14-00000
SEORET
INOV 1966
DO 66-26
D000 774-66
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, EUR Division
ATTENTION
SUBJECT
Chief, E/IB
Possible Exploitation of ICAP Iberia, S.A.
1. Reference is made to the meeting on subject with
Mr. Osborne Day, DCOS/Madrid, Mr. Stephen Munger, DC/E/IB, and
Mr. Gale Allen of DOCO just prior to Mr. Dav's departure for
Madrid. It is recalled that Mr. Allen agreed to pass the most
recent information on ICAP Iberia, S.A. to E/IB for transmittal
to Mr. Day in Madrid. Mr. Day would review this information
together with that known to the station and determine if the
firm has an operational potential for the Madrid Station. In
the event of an affirmative determination, Mr. Day indicated
that he would be interested in the assignment to ICAP Iberia
or a DO career commercial operations officer who would be carried
on the DO t/o but would be assigned operational tasks by the
Madrid Station.
2. ICAP Iberia, S.A. (see brochure attached as Tab A) is
a joint venture company formed by a DO proprietary company, ICAP
Corporation, New York, and the Spanish Corporation banif S.A.
It is domiciled in the Banff offices at Juan Bravo 2, Madrid,
Spain, and currently has no staff. Two of the Banif Directors,
Miguel Echegaray and Juan Antonio Ruiz de Alda, concern them-
selves with ICAP matters on a day to day basis when required.
ICAP Iberia serves mainly as the clearing house for Banif business
requiring support by ICAP New York and for ICAP business requiring
support by Banir in Spain. Recently in a letter dated 4 October 1966
the Fresident of Banif, Juan A. Ruiz de Alda, suggested to the
President of ICAP Corporation that a man and secretary be assigned
to ICAP Iberia to "keep issues alive, look for new ones, and obtain
the backing of our organizations for the completion of the work to
to be done." The stage thus appears to be set if WOFACT should
désire to assign an officer to ICAP Iberia, S.A.
SCOOT
14-00000
SECRET
3. The operational potential of ICAP Iberia, S.A., other
than non-official commercial cover, must necessarily depend upon
the activities, personnel, and contacts of Banif. As may be
noted in the descriptive note on Banif attached as Tab B, the
activities of Banif include research, consulting, securities,
new business, underwriting, and investment. These activities
cut across most aspects of economic and political life in Spain.
Danif's personnel have impressive backgrounds and its clients
and references are of a very high level.
4. Attached as Tab Care three additional pamphlets on
Banif covering its research and study department, its financial
services, and its investment bulletin.
5. DO would appreciate your comments on assigning & WOFACT
officer to ICAP Iberia, S.A. Normally, when a DC commercial
mechanism provides a cover opportunity, the Area Division supplies
the officer to be assigned. DO would, of course, welcome such an
assignment in this case. DO, in coordination with AR, would
also be willing to consider a suitable career trainee for assignment
to DO and thence to ICAP Iberia, S.A. as part of Do's development
of career commercial operations officers. Mr. Alien of DOCO,
Code 11, Extention 62888, may be contacted for ther information
on this matter.
Attachments:
Tab A
Tab B
Tab C
SECRET
C. Tracy Harnes
Chief, De
2
14-00000
UNITED STATES COVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO
: Mr. Cale Alien
Deco
1750 Pa
FROM
Chief, DO Divislo
DATE:
8 November 1966
SUBJECT: Information about Spain (and Portugal)
1. I have a request which seems to me to be right up the alley
of your friend, WUBRINY/1. I would hope, therefore, that he will try
to do us a fairly rapid and yet analytic job.
2. The request is for as accurate information as possible on
the following questions:
a. What or who, or both, represent the most significant
power elements in the economic or commercial field in Spain
today? Wherever possible, even in the cases where potent
companies have been named, specific individuals having the
positions of authority should be identified. In addition, where-
ever possible, relationships between these individuals and
American interests whether a company or another individual
should be specified.
b. What American interests, corporate or personal, have
major investments or holdings in Spain? What are the nature
of their investments or holdings and who are the individuals
basically responsible?
c. To the extent possible, provide the sante answers as
requested above for Portugal. Since Spain is of greater inter-
est, this question should only be answered to the extent possible
without too great an expenditure of time. If on the other hand it
is felt that good answers can be provided with regard to Portugal
given extra time, I would suggest that the Spanish answers bu
submitted as soon as possible and the Portuguese Information
given at a later data.
3. I would appreciate it if you could let me know as soon as pos-
sible WUBRINY/l's reaction to the above requests - can he get the answers;
will they be in considerable detail and how long does he think that it will take?
SOCIET
14-00000
2
P.S. It is assumed that, if it is possible to do it at all, the
above request can be carried out without stirring a lot of curiosity
and consequent inquiry.
14-000,00
6 mine tod boy read in plae
Wheat in rommel centes, personal contucts or
rebutionchpo
which wuld extatadeldishower slutters.
-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
DATE
1
TO
007 WCJ
29 DEC 61
DIRECTOR
FROM MEXICO CITY
BB Ping (check one):
No C3 Recond Valve. Destroy.
ni Me this copy as indire
Branch our filed as folented
All Indexing (check one):ショッ
Marked
ACTION
WH8
INFO
CI, CI/OPS, FI, S/C Dicanture?
3
251-253263
ROUTING
DEC 29 05002 51
Nane required
ROUT INE
IN 44356
DIR CITE ΜΕΧΙ 9745
ODURGE HAS REQUESTED ROUTINE NAME CHECK ON EDWARD G TICHDORN (PS).
ODURGE TOLD LOCALLY THAT STATION FILES DO NOT REFLECT ANY DEROGATORY
INFORMATION PERTINENT TO SUBJECT.
35
KID\12
ARI COPY
SECRET
ROUTING INITIAL
RIVAN DK.
N/FA
501-253203
1352
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
Copy No.
14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it
records significant action taken or
comments requiring preservation.
FROM:
RID/
RI/AN
TO: ACTION BRANCH
FEC. 60.
If file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file ro. below
and forward document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO.
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION. I-ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
TO
ROOM
NO.
WH 046 Barton
2.
3.
Монв
DATE
OFFICER'S
RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
EB
X
103/12 kg IOGED & COPY DETAC
4
Grunck
WH/CA/F
5 Jan. 9 4 3-4 What is the STATion
rying To TCH us, us, thi
TICHBORN is being hadi
uss with Lersmith
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
10.
1.7.
RID/FI
PBACE
BESUTST
ADSTRACT
INDE
TIGGERERN EDWARD G. (8)
201-253203
いいい
HMMA
10300
C
TO
20
DISPATCH
Chief, WHD
CLASIFICATION
SECRET
FROM
SLLECT
Chief of Station, Mexico 2
Edvard ü, TICHBORN
Transmittal of Mexican Press Clip
201-25 3203
ACTION REQUIRED
your information
DISPATEN SYMBOL AND NO
HMMA-18348
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
201-
DATE
22 December 1961
RE "433"-CHECK X ONE
MARKED FOR INDEGNG
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUAURED HQ DESK ONLY
Attached under separate cover is a press clip of a front-page
editorial which appeared in Newspaper B on 18 December 1961. According
to TICHSORN, the "press interview" was arranged on 15 December through a
telephone conversation initiated by an assistant staff writer of News-
paper B. At that time, TICHBORN was requested to prepare a written commen-
tary on the topic as presented in the press clip, and on the evening of
15 December, TICHBORN's drafted commentary was submitted to a minor staff
writer of Newspaper B. While the subject press article was presented as
a personal "interview" with by-line authorship given to the writer as
indicated, TICHBORN reports that he and the credited author have never been
in contact with each other. Subject clip is being forwarded for Head-
quarters information and interest.
20 December 1961
Distributions
3-WMHD, w/att. u/s/o
2- Files
Villard (thes
Billard C. Curtis
14-00000
Encuesta Mundial
Henry P. López o la Votación
Mexicana en los Estados Unidos
Por CARLOS DENEGRI,
VIL-LOS ANGELES
¿Que decir de la influencia de México y
tura en los Estados Unidos?
iudad Cientos de
¡a de EXCELSIOR
Y de su cules
"Por favor dice el abogado Henry P. López,
note usted la acertada sensibilidad politica del Presi
dente Kennedy, y tendremos una primera respuesta a
su pregunta. Kennedy ha escogido a un mexicano de
origen, ciudadano norteamericane, claro esta, Ramón
Tellez, ex alcalde de El Paso, come embajador de los
Estados Unidos en Costa Rica... Otro mexicano, de
origen, ha sido designado para dirigir el juzgado de dis
trito del Sur de Texas. El caso de Enrique González,
Abogado de San Antonio, es un ejemplo mas.
Pero, ¿quién es Henry P. Lopez...? Nos lo presenta
J. Carlos McCormick, ayu-p
dante especial del subsecre-
tario auxiliar adjunto de
Asuntos Interamericanos,
del Departamento de Esta-
do. en Washington: "De
ascendencia mexicana, el
abogado estadunidense
Henry P. López ha logrado
una brillante carrera como
internacionalista y miem-
bro prominente del Partido
Demócrata de California.
Graduado en Harvard,
miembro de la eminente
fraternidad "Phi Beta Kap-
pa", fue el triunfador en el
concurso nacional de orato-
ria de 1942- Candidato de
su partido, en 1958, para el
cargo de secretario de Estä.
do del Gobierno de Califor-
nia, obtuvo una de las más
altas votaciones estatales
SIGUE EN LA PAGINA CATOBCE
Henry P. López
como: Ma
de extrao
elogio al
(En l
camarogra
"Y po
sonrisa-
tinflas", qu
Roland
más impo
mente, la influencia cultural de nuestro paíse
Nuevos mod
Navidad. Eli
He aquí lo que nos dice Lopez, maestro de Har-
vard:
"Huelga confirmar, una vez más, que, en todos los
ordenes, desde hace décadas, la influencia mexicana,
nativa o inmigrante, en el seno de nosotros, ha sido
siempre destacada y visible. Visible v destacada en to-
dos los campos de la cultura; ya no sólo de la vida
civica.
"Baste haber viajado por la parte sur del pais,
para que hasta el más superficial observador reconozca,
de inmediato, la influencia de México. En la arquitec-
tura, en la música, en la alimentación en los nombres
españoles de las ciudades; en la misma composición
étnica del pueblo".
El abogado Henry P. López, enumera, en seguida,
los diversos capitulos de lo que él considera la influencia
mexicana en los Estados Unidos.
"Lo que respecta a la arquitectura. México ha fija-
do la imagen de su pasado colonial en incontables edifi-
cios, plazas, santuarios y hasta en poblados enteros de
Texas, California. Nuevo México, Colorado. Y aun en
la misma ciudad imperial de Nueva York. Hay lugares
como Santa Barbara y Monterrey, en California, capa-
ces de evocar tan exquisito sabor hispánico, que nadie
puede substräerse a la nostalgia que todo ello produce.
española que nos dieron su voto en Estados claves: ant. Pero no toda la influencia arquitectural de Mexico en
donde la lucha fue más intensa".
Declaración histórica.
"...En California, por ejemplo, el voto potencial
los Estados Unidos es colonial. La moderna arquitectura,
también tiene toques de mexicanidad. Ahi está, si no,
la admirable fachada del edificio "Felix Candela".
del Estado -me refiero al de filiación mexicana de Este excelente arquitecto, ejerce una extraordinaria
origen, es de un millón trescientos mil. En Texas, de influencia en la arquitectura moderna de Estados Uni-
doscientos cincuenta mil. En Nuevo Mexico, cerca del dos, y en general, en todas las manifestaciones artisticas
cincuenta por ciento del electorado es de origen me- vestéticas. Acaba de ser llamado a ocupar la cátedra
La mayoría de estos votantes son democratas, Inte. pendas conferencias, ha desarrollado interesantes teorias
de poesía en la Universidad de Harvard, donde, en estu-
és pues, iel Partido en el poder, en Estados Unidos, es
el de cuidor de cerca, alentar y encauzar a esos millo. sural,
sobre el dinamismo poético del moderno dibujo estruc
nes de hispanoamericanos, como los saman en el vecino Su genio se revela en numeroses edificios construi-
xicano".
país.
***
"Por eso fue que en la campaña de 1980, por prime-
ra vez en la historia, se crearon hataliones especiales
de mexicanos de origen que, al grito de "Viva" Ken.
neds!", asaltaron civicamente las casas electorales,
dando el triunfo al de Nueva Inglaterra".
Nuestro-intermediaria, McCormick,
to el capitan en jefe de esos "bataliona" de pastor...
ch, fue precisamen.
"En lo qise respecta a las artes plásticas. México ha
tenido un persistente impacto en la mentalidad norte-
americana Ro.milares de hogares se pueden ver repm
ducciones de cuadre de Diego Rivera, Jome Clamente
JON LÀ PIA DIFERESS
η σύμορ une sauded
yep jepurfantu
আপSVLO op sedou
xay requ
bop
טען
צו
De
EXCELSIOR 16-A Lunes 18 de Diciembre de 1961
ENCUESTA MUNDI
Rigua de la página caterce
Orozco David Alfaro Siqueiros. Esto no sólo en el de Juan Jose Arreola y Juan Rulfo".
Sur, sino en todo el pais, del uno al otro confin..
un reciente y súbito interés por las noveias y cuentos
"
mes a Rufino Tamayo y a José Luis Cuevas. Estos ejer-
cen influencia de vanguardia entre los artistas norte-
emericanos contemporaneos".
Runomis reciente manifestación artística, tene
Prosigue Lopez:
"Los autores mexicanes, escritores y poetas, no han
Genido aun la abundante publicidad que ha acogido a los
pintores. Pero, sin embargo, recientemente han recibido
aceptación dos jovenes escritores: Luis Spota y Carlos
Fuentes.
¿Nada más?
"Extriste deplorar que muchos norteamericanos se
En el campo profesional, un número considerable que tienen un sentido entus
de brillantes profesionistas mexico-americanos, se lanino debe tener fronteras do
"Si pasamos al arte cinematográfico, de máximo distinguido en sus respectivas actividades.
del mundo. Los más refinados y exigentes expectadores mejor litigante al oeste del Mississippi..
tro de una de las más grandes producciones artísticas Magaña, de Los Angeles, que es considerado como el
interés moderno, México convertirse en el cen-Mencionemos, ejemplo, el gran abogado Raúl
de Nueva York, Los Angeles, Chicago y otras ciudades,
se han impresionado grandemente con películas tales
como: "Macario", "Raices", "Los Olvidados" y otras más
de extraordinaria factura".
elogio al mexicano Gabriel Figueroa, como a uno de los
(En los circulos cinematográficos se menciona con
camarógrafos más grandes del mundo)...
"Y por supuesto comenta López con una amplia
sonrisa, ni que hablar de nuestro extraordinario "Can-dos y seguirá estando. Esto significa una nueva fuerza
"En resumen, México está presente en Estados Uni-
ven aun privados del placer de leer a Mariano Azuela, tinflas", que se ha convertido en la atracción de taquilla social, politica y cultural en ese pais vecino de ustedes,
Carlos González Peña. J José Vasconcelos, vio
de las letras mexicanas. Sin embargo, puede advertirse
Roland". viotros titanes más importante, a la altura de Anthony Quinn, Gilbert y del cual aoy ciudadano, orgulloso de mi origen mexica:
hehan Antonio, para ocupar una curul en la Camara
de Re
Representantes de Washington, ha hecho resaltar la
creciente importancia de la población mexicoamerica.
ma de ire Patados Unidos
Tanto axi?
axi? Una elección local?
Et propio Presidente Kennedy
Jae grandes
Kennedy, consciente de este
des proyecciones politicas de su
vard
mente, la influencia cultural de nuestro país...
He aquí lo que nos dice López, maestro de Har-
"Huelga confirmar, una vez
ordenes, y desde hace décadas, la influencia mexicana,
vez más, que, en todos los
queen
nativan inmigrante, en en el seno de nosotros, ha sido
sienipre destacada y visible. Visible y destacada en to
dos los campos de la cultura; ya no sólo de la vida
henny de
contenido, no vacilo en intervenir personalmente en
apoyo de la candidatura de Gonzalez. Es más: envió al
Vicepresidente J Johnson a San Antonio para que luchase civica.
codaicon codo. El mismo Mario Moreno "Cantinflas"
cooperó con el Partido Demócrata: La victoria de Gon,
záler fue arrolladora".
Normalmente, ce insólito que un Presidente com
prometa su personalidad en una campaña política local,
"Esta vez, la actitud de Kennedy no sorprendió a
el voto
para que hasta el más superficial observador reconozca,
de inmediato, la Influencia de México, En la arquitec-
tura, en la música, en la alimentación, en los nombres
españoles de las ciudades; en la misma composición
étnica del pueblo".
en
los diversos capítulos de lo que el considera la influencia
El abogado Henry P. López,
Jos politicos. Er Fra cepetada. Form ba parte de la Nueva i
Frontera. Hace mucho tiempo que sabemos que el
de los mexicarns de origen es decisivo. Sobre todo en mexicana en los Estados Unidos.
los Estados de Texas, California, Arizona, Nuevo Mé. "Lo que respecta a la arquitectura. México ha fija-
xico y Colorado".
do la imagen de su pasado colonial en incontables edifi-
Liper nue recuerda que el propis hermano del actual cios, plazas, santuarios y hasta en poblados enteros de
maridatario estadunidense, y jefe de su campaña electo- Texas, California, Nuevo México, Colorado. Y aun en
ral, Robert Kennedy, a raíz del triunfo democrata, de la misma ciudad imperial de Nueva York. Hay lugares
claró con toda sinceridad, y frente a los reporteros de como Santa Bárbars y Monterrey, en California, capa-
mundo entero: es muy probable que nuestra victoria ces de avocar tan exquisito sabor hispanien, que nadie
adelantoossto a los noris americanos de hablo puede substragrze a la nostalgia gia que todo ello produce.
wattantula Maxico eni
no y latino... Dos pueblos, México y Estados Unidos.
esta encuesta; of mis im
perturben prejuicue to reas
Lo nos lleva a za ce
dos formas de una misma
presión latina y la expressers
¿Pueden coesnter, an dem
DE MEXICO
SHOLOW
22 Dec 1961
opezuojny opeuojsesuog ns uc
S/C. ATT HMMA 18348.