14-00000
104-10113-10249
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AD Rune Fo. 9368
12 April 196
(Esbert Faubrint) 03
I Bremont titel of (Blasigura) Ordinary Passport in Alias
for Use by ARSTALK-1 - AB Case No. 6937

V3 Reswanton dated 5 April 1963, same subject

1. Transmitted herewith for use as outlined in Reference are the
following two documents issued in alias for ARSTALK-1: Nicaraguan
Ordinary Passport No. 85701 and U.S. Migration and Naturalization Form 1-94
(stapled in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel
Itinerary on which ARSTALK-1 should be briefed before he applies for the
Argentina visa in New York.

2. In keeping with arrangements made by TOD/AD, the Medical Officer
to preparing, for direct delivery to U/4, the International Vaccination
Certificate in alias to be used with the above documents. This certificate
should be checked for accuracy as to place and date of issue. It is
also understood that ARSTALK-1 will have received a bona fide smallpox
vaccination prior to departing from the U.S.

3. TOD/AD prepared the above Nicaraguan passport on the strength of
information that DIOGENESIS) could instruct an Argentine Consular post in
the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in one
week from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement
specified use of a Central American passport. to avoid possibly placing a long,
time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent
issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of previous issued
country entry dates (the most recent cassette available). This short
Itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for
an Argentina visa somewhat unusual. Since we are now informed that ARSTALK-1
is to obtain his Argentina visa without DIOGENESIS) assistance we wish to
ease the limitations of the documentation provided for this operation,
agreed to by Mr. Marini, matter of record. This confirms discussion
with Mr. Teobaldi. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by U/
indicated that a Nicaraguan transient in the U.S. can obtain an Argentina
visa in this country.

SECRET

4. It is understood that the passport will be projected for about six
months, following which it is to be returned to AD/AB. Should further
operational need exist for this document beyond that time, it must be
borne in mind that the expiration date is 7 March 1959 and that serial
revalidations are needed from that time forward. Any such revalidations
would have to be entered by TOD/AD. Also, use of this passport for travel
other than that originally intended (direct from U.S. to Argentina and back
within six months) will require careful scrutiny by SSD/AD of the situation
at the time of the intended future travel.

5. In accordance with verbal arrangements between Encore. (Febrini
and Polea) please pass on to MED/AD details of ARSTALK-1's procurement of
the Argentina visa and any other travel control events of significance in
the use of this passport so that MED/AD may gain from the experience of this
agent in the use of this alias document.

6. Any further questions concerning this case should be referred to
the undersigned or to Miss Finn (Japtime) on extension 1531.

Attachment: 1 Envelope (b/s)
(Nicaraguan) Passport,
Travel Itinerary
Distribution:
Official 61 - Addressee
1 - 03/TOD/MED (Info)

(Patrick J. Polea)
MED/13