104-10182-10057
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
NATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME
WIROGUE
201-233477
VOL. III
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM
DELETIONS IF ANY
DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
27 JULY 78
DAN HARDWAY.
Dom Hardway
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
3-D-C-F-E-T
14 APR 1964
DATE
RID/201
CH
Initials
The following documents have been removed from als dossier and forwarded
strcato further processing:
Sent to RID/NIS
Sent to FID/AN
ACLW-172 17 7 10060
ACLW-266 23 Dec 60
EGCA - 18888 12 Dec 62
now
حبتسم
Vel III
Val III
Val
This list is to be destroyed after documents are returned to RD/Files
S-E-C-S-E-T

Mr. Ernest G. Maycrink
Dear Mr. Maycrink:
Effective 31 October 1960, all contracte, oral or written, by and between
you and the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting
Officer, are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and
In lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.
The United States Covernment, as represented by the Contracting Officer.
heroby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of
certain information and related services of a confidental nature under the
following terms and conditioner
1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such intor
mation and service, you will receive from the Government, payable in such
an approved manner as you may direct in writing, the following:
(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of
$6000 per annum.
(b) Additional compensation in an amount calculated at the rate
of $3000 per annum for cost-of-living expenses (including
quarters), effective upon your arrival at and applicable only
to your contemplated permanent post of assignment overseas.
Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters
provided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this
agres nont.
2. Taxes. Montes paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government
under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will
be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes.
The method as well as the procedures used by this organisation to imple-
nent its tax reporting responsibilines will be based primarily upon cover
and seçarity requirements. You herein authorize this organization to with-
hold taxes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.
3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and
transportation expenses to and from your permanent post of duty-overseas
and for authorised operational travel. You inay be entitled to per diem in
lieu of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, while on
temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel,
transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be
properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to pay-
ment and accounting in substantial compliance with Covernment regulations.
4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for
necessary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limit
ed by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payinent and accounting
in substantial conformance with applicable Governinant regulations.
5. Fepayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund
any monios advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Covernment to withhold
the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies
due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appro-
priate.
3477
AMW

14-00000
Negotiated Benefits. (a) (i), if, in the performance of activities under
this agreeinant, you incur an injury in or illness which is not the result of your
gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Covernment
will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability beno
fits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Coverament
discretion deena proper provided, however, that such benefits shall not
ent in its sole
axceed a fate!! $5000 for the same injury or illness.
(2) If you die in the performance of activities
areunder and your death is is not the result of your g
misconductor intemperate
ar gross negligence, willlu
intemperate act, the Covernment will pay the sum of $5000
to your beneficiary(s) less any amount paid to you under sub-paragraph (1)
above if such injury or fitness resulted in your death, provided that said
beneficiary(ies) is acceptable to the Covernment at the time such payment is
to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an indivisual to whom
payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its
avowed principles and ideals.
(b) Cutstanding performance by you under this
agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder in an efficient man-
ner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area
mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent decined appropriate by the
United States Government.
7. Execution of Documents. II, in the performance of services under
this contract, you assume the custudy of Government funds or take title of
record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which
property has in fact been purchased with montes of the U.S. Coveradient,
you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship,
either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents
may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.
8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Coverac-ent
under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident
to an employee status.
9. Funding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrange:nent,
monies due you hereunder inay be funded in other than a direct nauner. It
is understood and agreed that any mchies so funded constitute payment by
the Covernment in satisfaction of its obligations under this agreement.
10. Cover. (a) It is anticipated that you will undertake a cover venture
in the course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture must
be approved by the appropriate Government representative overseeing your
activities prior to its initiation. Any and all documents which you may
execute in the course of said cover venture are subordinate to this agree-
ment and any contradiction in terms which in any way amplly, extend or
restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this
agreement which shall always be dominant.
(b) To provide capital for your approved cover venture the
Government will loan you 54900w be secured by a non-interest bears, prom
lsory note, payable on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an account
in a foreign bank and a $3000 letter of credit will be issued you against that
deposit. The additional $1900 will be released from said account, after
approvalby the Government representative overseeing your activities.
:

14-00000-
(c). You will submit to the Covernment quarterly income and
expense statements on the cover venture and copies of all tax returns filed
in connection therewith. Your cover accounts shall be kept separate and
distinct from the bank account into which your personal compensation pay-
ments are made.
(d) You herein agree that monies loaned you by the Coverament
shall be repaid from the profits of the cover venture, in a nounts and ất
periodic intervals to be established by the Government ernment representative over
seeing your activities. Alter said loan has been completely repaid and all
other obligations, such as local taxes, etc., have been made, you ou m may retain
any further profi derived from said cover venture. However, it is clearly
understood and agreed that your primary obligation under this agreement is
the performance of Governinental activities.
11. Socrecy. All information related to this agreement conveyed through
instructions, this instrument, or otherwise, is secret and shall not be di-
vulged to to any any person, organization or government in any form or ma manner,
except as authorized by the undersigned Contracting Officer executing this
areement. It is agreed that any revelation whatssover of the above infor-
nation will constitute and be an immediate and final breach of this agree
ment and will result in forfeiture by you of any and all benefits which may
then have accrued to you by reason of this agreement.
12. Instructions. During the term of this agreement, and in your
official cover capacity you herein agree to act in conformance with instruc-
tions, oral or written given you by authorized representatives of this organi-
zation.
13. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitmente per-
taining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated
in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on
this organization.
14. Term. This contract is effective as of 1 November 1960, and shall
continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless soccer terminated
by the Governinent either:
(a) Ey sixty (60) days' actual notice to you from the Government, or
(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by
your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise.
rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.
Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended
upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination on
your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expiration
of this agree:nant or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to return
travel expenses to the United States. Termination or expiration of this agree
ment will not release you from the obligation of any security oath you may
be required to take.
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
!
Er
Contracting Chicer
ACCEPTED:
Emist. G. Daymiz
ernest G. Maycrink
WINESS! Charles R. Roistade 4VED.

14-00000
TO:
UNCLASSE
AL
DOL ONLY
(Optional)
SR/DOB
Dow Nesciur
Div. 2110 I Bldg.
7.
8.
9.
10
11.
12.
13
14.
15.
FORM
1 DEC 36
CONFIDL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
28 OCT 1960
26/01/
GFA 33152
DAT
OFFICER'S COMMENT
INITIALS.
For Dave's file
Fr5re Gum..doe.
-
Maybe you can use some of this
nift for Daves deas.
K.
AFA 1
:
201-233477
UNCLASSIFIED
D. S, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958.0-476733
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
1

in
SECRET
REDWOOD/REDSOX/REACRE
S/CATO EGFA 32052
TO Chief SR
FRO: Chief of Base, Frankfurt
SECRET

Subject:
DOB:
Address:
ABASPIC
Cover for Contact:
Notes on Contact:
SECRE
Attament
to EGFA
REDSOX Spotting and Assessment
Report
Friganza as Maj. Michael Long.
Rostedt as George Fowler
Date Apr!! 1959
Rostedt and Friganza took the night train to Paris, arriving morning 6 6 April,
and discussed the AFASPIC case with the Paris station. Rostedt briefed COS/POS
Friganza departed to mect led to mect Subject ar
es on current REDSOX. Rostedt and
about 1130 hrs., taking extreme precautions against surveillance.
and others
Subject did not appear at the rendezvous at 12 hours. We waited until 1230
delayed
hours when Friganza decided to visit Annick to determine if subject had been de
En route to Annick Friganza changed his mind and returned to the rendezvous
(Georges V) where he he saw Rostedt with Subject. Subject: had apparently gone to the
Georges VI rendezvous, (which is understandable considering the hurried circumstances
of the previous parting when the rendezvous was discussed), had waited perhaps 1/2
hr. and then decided he had better check the Georges V. On arrival at the Georges V
Rostedt immediately recognized him, approached the taxi which Sübject had left and
re-entered, looked hard at Subject who caught the significance of Rostedt's extra-
ordinary attentions, ordered the taxi around the corner, paid him his due fare, and
re-Joined Rostedt. It was at this moment that Friganza returned on intuition.
The trio then went to lunch, taking a circuitous route by foot and taxi. Cver
lunch from about 13-15 hours Rostedt had an opportunity to acquaint himself with
Subject and to put to Subject several questions concerning willingness and the job.

After lunch Friganza and Rostedt decided that under the circumstances it would
be advisable to keep Subject in Faris rather than risk his arrest travelling between
Paris and Ambert or returning to Gap to have his carte d'identite, revalidated.
Accordingly while Rostedt spent the next is hrs. or so with Subject, Friganza
returned to the Paris Station where he asked for the use of 15 rue Weber safehouse.
Paris Station had committed the safehouse for the night of 6 and 7 April as well
as the morning of 8 April but beginning late afternoon 8 April the house was
assigned for the use of AEASPIC. Arrangements were made to have Platipodis who
knows Subject to be at the safehouse at 1650 hours (alternate 2530 hrs.) on 8 April.
Subject was Instructed to go to the safehouse, ring 3 longs, 2 short, whereupon
he would be admitted by Platipodis. He was likewise given the name John Sandor and
told that in the event of unavoidable nquiry he should claim that he had been lent
the apartment by Tom Brown, a friend of John Sandor. He was instructed not to
answer the phone and not immediately to answer the door. If after persistent ringing
he felt obliged to answer the door, he should pretend he had drunk too much wine,
was cleeping heavily, and should come to the door appearing groggy. Subject was
further instructed to stay in the sarehouse during daylight hours and to venture out
at night only if necessary to buy food, eat, etc. He was told that Friganza would
return for him sometime between land 16. April.

Between 6 and 8 April Subject will stay with Annick.During the day he will
avoid the house, going to movies, etc., appearing only at night to sleep.
Subject was paid Francs 49.874 (exactly 8700).
:
SECRET
Anthony H. Friganza.
Case Officer

14-00000
SECRET
2 Apr11 1959
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Station, Germany
FROM
Chief of Base, Frankfurt
SUBJECT
for Operational Use
Application for Issuance of Bundesrepublik
Personalausweis fo
Personal Details on the Person to whom Issued:
(a) Last name: Ludeau
(b) First name: Martin
(o) Birthdate: 18 September 1919, Trier
(d) Citizenship at birth: German
(e) Height: it: 174 cm.
(f) Color of eyes: Brown
(g) Glasses: No
(h) Build: Mittel
(1) Weight: 56 kg.
(J) City of residence: Anything convenient
(k) Place of Issuance of BdPA: Anything convenient.
2. Reason for Request: This document may be needed to bring AEASPIC
from France to Gormany. It would be used only after discussion with Dexter
E. Rostedt from AEACRE and with the approval of Chief of Base, Frankfurt and
Chief of Station, Paris to move Subject in this fashion. I have checked to
determine whether Subject can move without considerable danger in this fashion
and if it is customary; he can and it is.
3. Subject will need no other documents, being that this will be a
one time use to cross at Strasbourg. This document is being requested in the
event that it is needed for the 6 April meeting in Paris with Subject. Per
cables from Headquarters Rostedt is empowered to decide whether Subject should
be brought to Germany and if so, it would save one extra trip to Paris if this
document were carried by the undersigned to the 6 April meeting so that he
could be brought directly to Germany.
4. Photographs have already been given to the MKTOPAZ officer.
Anthony H. Friganza
Approved:
Deputy for Operations, cos

14-00000
Subiect: AEASPIC
DOB:
Address:
Cover for Contact:
Fotes on Contact:
Atachment
to EGFA
REDSOX Spotting and Assessment
Report
Date 25 March 1959
The undersigned arrived in Paris on the morning of the 25th of March and went to
the safehouse where the LEFLUTTER operater had spent the night and was shortly
to meet Subject at the Cafe Les Sport near the Port Maillot. Subject passed by
as we were having coffee and according to instructions waited elsewhere. We
left while the operator collected Subs and tock him to the house, enabling
to return at about 11 hours.
returned
Subject was dismissed for lunch at about 1145, whereupon the operator and
the undersigned returned to the Embassy office where after a quick lunch the
questions for the examination were written. The operator met Subject, ret
to the house, and began the examination at about 1430, it having been agreed
we would appear at the safehouse promptly at 1630. be did this to find that the
operator had not concluded the examination but there was sufficient time to
continue which he did. The examination was completed about 1845 hours, whereupon
we were informed by the operator that in his opinion Subject was not attempting
to deceive on any important points, even though some of the more prosaic aspects
of his biography continue to defy logical acceptance.
We then discussed future meeting arrangements with Subject: Subject will
appear in front of the Cafe Georges V on the Champs Elysees at 1214 and 16 hours
on 6 April. He will wait for five minutes in front of the cafe but will hot:
enter. If we are not there he will return for the alternate. In any event
alternate contact will be made through Annick. Subject was instructed to clear
up his affairs in Ambert and be prepared to depart for Germany; however, it was.
also explained to Subject that we were not authorized to make a final commitment
to Subject and that much as we regretted this, this would be left until 6 April.
Subject was paid Francs 15,500 for which no receipt was obtained since we were
in a hurry to catch a plane for the Hague. If Subject has any difficulties he
will write Annick. He will not return to Gap. He expects to stay with Josef
Dassaud in Ambert until the night of 5 April when he will travel to Paris by
train. It was further agreed that on or about 4 or 5 April Subject will have
sent a letter to Annickfor "Mike" in which he will conform his arrival and in
double talk inform us if he has had any trouble.
We discüssed with Platipodis of the Paris station the need to send "Maurice"
to Annick on 4 or 5 April to see if Subject had written.
SECRET
Anthony H. Friganza
Case Officer

14-00000
Attachment
to EGFA
REDSCX Spotting and Assessment
Report
Date
Subject:
DOB:
Address:
Cover for Contact
Notes on Contact:
Knowing that the LCFLUTTER operator could get to Paris in two days we asked
Subject to take the train on the coming of 21 February. He agreed to do this.
He said it would be necessary for his (if he is accepted) to return to Ambert
once more; it will not be necessary for him to return to Cap. After discussing this
and paying Subject Francs 10,000, we we drove by the railroad station where Subject
hecked on train schedules and we parted. In regard to the lapse of the validity
Subject's documents subject said: After the 7-10 January meeting in Paris he
had driven back to Ambert; he did act lid act return to Cap; he has been living illegally
In Ambert since his return from Paris on 11 January. He has failed to extend his
document because he calculated he would leave France before the document expired.
Subject surmises that if he were obliged to return to Gap he might be able to
talk his way out of trouble but he might be given two weeks in Jallas a sharp
reminder of the necessity to validate documents promptly.
March
21XXXXXXXX1959: Subject was met by the undersigned at the Gare Austerlitz at
2040 hours. Henry C. Ladue of the Parts station counter-survefiled the meeting and
our progress from the station by foc: and then by metro to the Severes Babylon
station. Ladou is certain that cur meeting was not surveilled. After going our
own way from Ladou, we took a taxi to the Opera, switched taxis and then went to
the safehouse in the rue weber 14. After Subject washed and shaved we drove in the
car provided by the station to Les Halles where we had dinner at the Pied de Cochon.
We returned to the apartment at about 20 hours, talked for another hour or so while
ving a drink, and then retired. During this conversation Subject was encouraged
1 prompted to develop thoughts on a variety of matters which we hoped would tend
give us better grounds on which to assess him. Nothing of particular operational
or biographic significance was discussed.
22 March 1959: After breakfast Subject was asked to wait until we returned. We
went with Ladou to the airport to meet the LCFLUTTER operator. After the operator
arrived we decided on a program and returned to the apartment and suggested that
Subject spend the afternoon on his own and agreed on a 2230 rendezvous net far from
Port Maillot and the safehouse where Subject was met. We walked to the safehouse
and retired at about midnight.

23 March 1959: We arose at &, left the apartment by about 8:40, walked to a cafe
where we breakfasted, and then per arrangement passed the corner of Port Maillot
and rue Malakoff at which time the COFLUTTER operator observed us and followed. is
to the apartment. We showed Subject upstairs and left the apartment where we met
the operator and tock him upstairs and introduced him as Mr. Brown. After a very
brief introduction with no explanation, we absented ourselves from the room while
the operator reviewed Subject's biography in preparation for the LOFLUTTER examination.
At about 1245 hours Subject left the apartment on his own, it having been agreed to
meet him on the Avenue Grand Amee in front of the Tout Bien cafe. The FLUTTER
operator returned to the Paris station office with us where it was agreed that the
undersigned would go to Germany and return to Paris on 24 or 25 March. The operator
met Subject at the rendezvous and took him to the apartment. After making arrange-
ments for tickets, etc., we returned to the apartment where we interrupted subject
and the operator. During this brief meeting Subject was paid a further 39.000
Francs, making a total of Franes 49,000 or $100. He was instructed to spend the
night of 23 and 24 March chez Annick and we would return to see him again ca 25 March.
SECRET
Anthony H. Friganza
Case Officer
No security flaps although the potential is there for a beautiful one: Our false
identity documents together with Subject's lack of any legal documentation is raw
material sufficient for this.

SECRET
REDWOOD/REDSOX/REACRE
S/CATO EGFA 32052
TO Chief SR
FRO: Chief of Base, Frankfurt
SECRET

Subject:
DOB:
Address:
WIROGUE
Cover Story

1921 25 July
Custria
1. Father took to Funca 1921
2. Place of Pasirnice Versaille
3.
3. Lyceums in Versaille 1926-1938
Franz Reiner
Geolo Cogical engineer
Occupied by petrolium & cial concen
in the fully de La Time (South Cinthia)
and tendorf Con petroline)
He istinched in Bay Bory shule shule in in Frei Freiberg
Germany nen Dresden
5. Anschluss 11. 1938.
6. Returned to Cuitinn Dec 1938
7.. found Hitler Youth 1989.
1939 Octofu formed Gering Gimny
9. Stuttgard prelimining training
10.
Cquil, lavo assignal to training shivch
1940
for Weksmack in bentquiters Bielen
Assignment track french...
۱
1
1944 - Sargt
12.
1944 - his
Weitem front - dung Battle of Baulic
201-233477

14-00000
by Air Forces. 682 ad inden dio)
13.
Prisen Canys France
until urich 1946.
14
Age 1946
Clermont-Ferrant France
enployed in
15.
Return Custum 1948.
Father stell being
16
1948-1953 ARTS & METIERS (Clondon/Marne)
١٦
1953
1955 Paris Rive de Vaugirard
18
1955-
Return ren

14-00000
TSD/TRAINING EVALUATION
HANE
WIROGUE
DIVISION
AF/V/1
SUBJECT Tutorial Seerst Writing
DATES TRAINED 2-4 November 1960
1. During the three-day period WIROGUE received some six hours training
in the operational usage of Secret Writing, covering the specifics of his
own components of the two SV systems assigned for his operation. The
Instruction vas given in an AF safehouse and vas presented entirely in
English.
2. In consonance with his own requirements the agent ves given a
triefing in the principles and practices of 8W as a clandestine means of
communication in covert operations,--plans at this writing envisage the use
of Ed only for emergency commo. It was repeatedly emphasized that the
success of an SW letter depends 50% upon the unobtrusive "normalcy" of the
open text and 50% upon the preparation of the Sd text itself.
3. Terminal Evaluation --
4. WIROGUE demonstrated that he could adequately prepare letters
bearing a carbon-type secret ink which would meet operational require-
ments. He is a very meticulous vorker and possesses a high dogreo of
sanual dexterity-embidextrously, yet!
b. He quite adequately mastered the development procedures for his
assigned receiving system.
4. The agent's training specifically covered the following:
8. Writing techniques with a carbon-type ink
b. Scorch development of SW
c. Standard defense measures for carbon-ink writing
d. Use of glancing light in defensive and offensive examination
for SH
e. Relative placements of the SW and overt texts on the lettersheet
f. Discussion of cover letters and indicators.
201233477.

14-00000
5. The operational supplies passed to the Instructor by BAB vore issued
to WIIOGUE at the completion of the training.
CI/CB Reflections:
1. WIROGUE in the opening phases of the instruction indicated (from
sense of nodesty, I presume) that he was completely unfamiliar with 8.
During training sessions the caliber of his questions, observations and even
of some of the steps in SW technique which he he independently suggested for
use all definitely indicated to the writer that he was quite familiar and/or
somewhat experienced in St practices.
WILLIAM C. LITTLE, Instructor
TSD/TRNG/Technical School

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFYCATION
SECRET
10
Chief of Station. Amic
INFO
FROM
Chief, Africa
SJELECT General - Administrative
Specific - Contract
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ernest G. MAYCRINK
IPHO
POSED
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
Enclosed for your information and retention is a copy of
Ernest G. MAY CRINK's contract.
DUDLEY G. FOSHEE
8 December 1960
Attachment:
Contract MAYCRINK
Distribution:
2- Leopoldville
CROSS REFERENCE TO
PAULA T. HENNEGAR
PRO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY-QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESS
CAR JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
DATE TYPED
201. 233477..
8 Dec 1960
DATE DISPATCHED
16 DEC 1960
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ACLS-149
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
ACCOM
PLISHED

14-00000
Mr. Ernest G. Maverick 310ctober
Dear Mr. Mayerink
Backlin
Ellective 1960, all contraris, oral or written, by and between
you and the United States Goverment, as represented by the Contracting Officer,
are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and in lieu thereaf
the following agreement is substituted,
The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer,
hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of
certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following
terms and conditions)
1. Compensation, in full consideration for the submission of such information
and services, you will receive from the Government, payable in such an approved
manner as you may direct in writing, the following)
(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $6000 per annum.
(b) Additonal compensation is an amount calculated at the rate of $3000 per
annum for cost-of-living expenses (tabluding quarters), effective upon your
arrival at and applicable only to your contemplated permanent post. of assignment
overseas. Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters pre-
vided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this agreement,
2. Taxes. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government under
this paragraph considtute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised ne
to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as weli
as the procedures used by this organization to implement te tax reporting responst-
bilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. You herein.
authorize this organization to withhold taxes on said Income if it determines such
requiremente so necessitate.
3. Travel. ?
-
4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for neces -
sary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limited by the
Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in substantial
conformance with applicable Government regulations.
201-233477

14-00000
5. Repariness. It is recognised that your fallure to stront for or refund Rey
montes adrazred you hereunder ahall entitie the Government to withhold the total
ampiet of such ladebtedness or any portion thereof from any mosles due you under
the terms of this contract là such manner as it deems appropriate.
:
5. Negotiated Benefits. (a) (1) 1. In the performance of activities under this
agreement, you incur an injury or illness which is not the be result of your gross
negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government will provide
medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability benefits in such amounts
and under such conditions as the Government in its sole discretion deems propert
provided, however, that such benefits shall not exceed a total of $5000 for the same
Jary or Wasss.
(2) If you die in the performance of activities here-
under and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct
or Intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $5000 to your beneficiary(ies)
less any amount paid to you under sub-paragraph (1) above if such injury or illness
resulted in your death, provided that said beneficiary(les) is acceptable to the Govern
ment at the time such payment is to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder
18 an individual to whom payment By the U: S: Government can be made without
conflicting with its avowed principles and ideals.
(b) Outstanding performance by you under this agrec-
ment and your fulfilment of obligations hereunder in an efficient manner will result
in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area mutually agreeable to
both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by the United States Government.
7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this.
contract, you assume the custody of Goverament funda or take title of record to
property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact
Deen purchased with mosies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and
acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive,
and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by this organisatio
to evidence this relationship.
8. Stat. You are not an employee of the United States Goverment under this
agreement and are Lot entitled to any decefite normally incident to an empisyve statue,
:

140000
2
9. Fundin if necessary to protect the arcurity of this arrangement, montes due
you hereunder may be funded in other than direct manners understood and
agreed that any monies to funded coastitile payment by the Government in satisfaction
of its obligations under this agreement.
:
10. Cover. (a) It is anticipated that you will undertake a cover venture in th
course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture must be approved
by the appropriate Government representative overseeing your activitios prior to its
initiation. Any and all documents which you may execute in the course of said cover
venture are subordinate to this agreement and any contradiction to terms which in
any way amplify, extend or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall
be resolved by this agreement which shall always be dominanai
P
(b) To provide capital for your approved cover venture the Government
will loan you $4000 to be secured by a non-interest bearing promisory note, payable
on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an account in a foreign bank and a $3000
letter of credit will be issued you against that deposit. The additional $:000 will be
released from said account, after approval by the Government representative over.
seoing your activities.
(c) You will submit to the Government quarterly income and expensa
statements on the cover venture and copies of all tax returns filed in connection
therewith. Your cover accounts shall be kept separate and distinct from the bank
account into which your personal compensation payments are mada. I
(d) You herein agree that monies loaned you by the Government sha!!
be repaid from the profits of the cover venture, in amounts and at periodic intervala
to be established by the Government representative overseeing your activities. After
said loan has been completely repaid and ail other