File #:
62-116395

Serial Scope:
1ST NR 1441
2ND NR 1444, 3RD NR 1444
1STNR 1445 THRU 1447
1449 THRU 1452
1457
1459 THRU 1463
1465 THRU 1467
1469, 1410
1472 THRU 1414
1475
:
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326 Date: 03-18-2025
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530
TO:
John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division
FEB 0 1976

FROM:
SB
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Steven K. Blackhurst
Assistant Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination
SUBJECT:
Senate Select Committee Request
dated February 9, 1976
Attached is a letter from the Senate Select Committee
dated February 9, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate
response.
24 ENCLOSURE,
FENCLEBEHIND FILE
cc:
S
EX-115
62-116395-1475
FC-38
7 MAR 1.0
Paul Daly
Letto Alt IDAG
2/20/16
δαπέ
TJM: eks
NW-88326 DocId:32989603 Page-2
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
FERIAIN TO UNCLASSITED
DATEL 2/6/0157 SP2ALMICP
TJhY
5-M.
Executive Order 10450
Security Requirements For Government Employment
WHEREAS the interests of the national
security require that all persons privileged to
be employed in the departments and agencies
of the Government, shall be reliable. trust-
worthy, of good conduct and character, and of
complete and unswerving loyalty to the United
States; and
WHEREAS the American tradition that all
persons should receive fair, impartial, and
equitable treatment at the bands of the Govern-
ment requires that ai persons seeking the
privilege of employment or privileged to be
employed in the departments and agencies of
the. Government be adjudged by mutually
consistent and no le., than minimum standards
and pivcedures unong, the departneris und
agencies governing the employment and reten-
tion in employment of persons in the Federal
service:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the
authority vested in me by the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, including
section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States (5 U. S. C. 631); the Civil Service
Act of 1883 (22. Stat 403;,5 US C. 632, et
seq.); section GA of the act of August 2, 1939,
53 Stat. 1148 (5 U. S. C..118 j); and the act of
August 26, 1950, 64 Siut. 476 (5 U. S. C. 22-1,
et seq.), and as President of the United States,
and deeming such action necessary in the best
interests of the national security, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
SEC. 2. The head of each department and
agency of the Government shall be responsible
for establishing and maintaining within his
department or agency an effective program to
insure that the employment and retention in
employment of any civilian officer or employee
within the department or agency is clearly con-
sistent with the interests of the national
security.
SEC. 3. (a) The appointment of each civilian
officer or employee in any department or agency
of the Government shall be made subject to
investigation. The scope of the investigation
shall be determined in the first instance accord-
ing to the degree of adverse effect the occupant
of the position sought to be filled could bring
about, by virtue of the nature of the position.
on the national security, but in no event. shall
: the investigation include less than a national
agency check (including a check of the finger-
print files of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion), and written inquiries to appropriate
local law enforcement agencies, former em-
ployers and supervisors, references, and schools
attended by the person under investigation
Provided, that upon request of the head of the
department or agency. concerned,. the. Civil
Service Commission may, in its discretion, au-
thorize such less investigation as may meet the
requirements of the national security with
respect to per-diem, intermittent, temporary.
or seasonal employees, or aliens employed out-
side the United States. Should there develop
at any stage of investigation information indi-
SECTION 1. In addition to the departments
and agencies specified in the said act. of August
26, 1950, and Executive Order No: 10237 ofcating that the employment of any such person
!
i
1
i
April 26, 1951, the provisions of that act shall
apply to all other departments and agencies of
the Government:
may not be clearly:consistent with the interests..
of the national security, there shall be conducted
with respect to such person a full field investi-
FPM Supplement. 990-1
::667-629 0-63-11-
IKINY 88326 Docid:32989603 Page 3
62-1163
CNCLOSURE
5/4~75
}
gation, or such less invesgation as shall be
sufficient to enable the head of the departnient
or agency concerned to determine whether.re-
tention of such person is clearly consistent with
the interests of the the national security.
(b) The head of any department or agency
shall designate, or cause to be designated, any
position within his department or agency the
occupant of which could bring about; by virtue,
of the nature of the position, a material adverse
effect on the national security as a sensitive sensitive
position. Any position so designated shall be
filled or occupied only by a person with respect
to whom a full field investigation has been con-
ducted: Provided, that a person occupying a
sensitive position at the time it is designated
as such may continue to occupy such position
pending the completion of a full field investiga-
tion, subject to the other provisions of this
order: And provided further, that in case of
emergency a sensitive position may be filled
for a limited period by a person with respect
to whom a full field preappointment investiga-
tion has not been completed if the head of the
department or agency concerned finds that such
action. is necessary in the national interest,
which finding shall be made a part of the
records of such department or agency.
SEC. 4. The head of each department and
agency shall review, or cause to be reviewed,
the cases of all civilian officers and employees
with respect to whom there has been conducted
a full field investigation under Executive Order
No. 9835 of March 21, 1917, and, after such
further investigation as may be appropriate,
shall readjudicate, or cause to be readjudicated,
in accordance with the said act of August 26,
1950, sucli of those cases as have not been ad-
judicated under a security standard commen-
surate with that established under this order.
SEC. 5. Whenever there is developed or re-
ceived by any department or agency informa-
tion indicating that the retention in employ-
ment of any officer or employee of the Govern-
ment may not be clearly consistent with the
interests of the national security, such informa- -
tion shall be forwarded to the head of the
employing department or agency or his repre
sentative, who, after such investigation as may
:
the appropriate review, or cause to he
reviewed, and, where necessary, readjudicate,
or cause to be readjudicated. in accordance
with the said act of August 26,-1950, the case.
of such officer or employee.
of
SEC. 6. Should there develop at any stage of
investigation. information indicating that the
employment of any officer or employee of the
Government may not be clearly consistent with
the interests of the national security, the hend
of the department or agency concerned or his
representative shall immediately suspend the
employment of the person involved if he deems
such suspension necessary in the interests of
the national security and, following such inves-
tigation and review as he deems necessary, the
head of the department or agency concerned
shall terminate the employment of such sus-
pended officer or employee whenever he shall
determine such termination necessary or advis-
able in the interests of the national security, in
accordance with the said act of August 26, 1950.
SEC. 7. Any person whose employment is
suspended or terminated under the authority
granted to heads of departments and agencies
by or in acco..iance with the said act of August
26, 1950, or pürsuant to the said Executive
Order No. 9835 or any other security or loyalty
program relating to officers or employees of the
Government, shall not be reinstated or restored
to duty or reemployed in the same department
or agency and shall not be reemployed in any
other department or agency, unless the head
of the department or agency concerned finds
that such reinstatement, restoration, or reem-
ployment is clearly consistent with the interests
of the national security, which finding shall be
made a part of the records of such department
or agency: Provided, that no person whose
employment has been terminated under such
authority thereafter may be employed by any
other department or agency except after a de-
termination by the Civil Service Commission
that such person is eligible for such employment.
SEC. 8. (a) The investigations conducted
pursuant to this order shall be designed to de-
velop information as to whether the employ-
mont'or retention in employment in the Federal
service of the person being investigated is clearly
::
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 4
FPM Supplenient 990-1
4
consistent with th nterests of the national
security. Such incomation: shall relate, but
shall not be limited, to the following:
(1) Depending on the relation of the Gov-
ernment employment to the national security:
*(1) Any behavior, activities, or associations
which tend to show that the individual is not
reliable or trustworthy.
(ii) Any deliberate misrepresentations, falsi-
fications, or omissions of material facts..
(in) Any criminal, infamous dishonest, im-
moral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct.
habitual use of intoxicants to excess, drug ad-
diction, or sexual perversion.
(iv) Any illness, including any mental condi-
tion, of a nature which in the opinion of compe-
tent. medical authority may cause significant
defect in the judgment or reliability of the
employee, with due regard to the transient or
continuing effect of the illness and the medical
findings in such case¹
(v) Any feets which furnish reason to be-
lieve that the individual may be subjected to
coercion, influence, or pressure which may
cause him to act contrary to the best interests
of the national security.
(2) Commission of any act of sabotage
espionage, treason, or sedition, or attempts
thereat or preparation therefor, or conspiring
with, or aiding or abetting, another to commit
or attempt to commit any act of sabotage,
espionage, treason, or sedition.
(3) Establishing or continuing a sympathetic
association with saboteur, spy, traitor,
seditionist, anarchist, or revolutionist, or with
an espionage or other secret agent or representa-
tive of a foreign nation, or any representative
of a foreign nation whose interests may be
inimical to the interests of the United States,
or with any person who advocates the use of
force or violence to overthrow the government
of the United States or the alteration of the
form of government of the United States by
unconstitutional means.
(4) Advocacy of use of force or violence to
overthrow the government of the United States,
As amended by Executive Order 10548 of August 2,
1954:
:
:
or of the
ration of the form of government
of the United States by unconstitutional means
(5) Knowing membership in, or amliation
or sympathetic association with, any foreign or
domestic organization, association, movement,
group, or combination of persons (hereinafter
referred to as organization) which is totalitarian,
fascist, communist, subversive, or which has
adopted a policy of unlawfully advocating the
commission of acts of force or violence to deny
others, their rights under the Constitution or
laws of the United States or of any State, or
which seeks to overthrow the government of
the United States or any State or subdivision
thereof by unlawful means.
(6) Intentional. unauthorized disclosure to
any person of security information. or of other
information disclosure of which is prohibited by
law, or willful violation or disregard of security
regulations.
(7) Performing or attempting to perform his
duties, or otherwise acting, so as to serve the
interests of another government in preference
to the interests of the United States.
(8) Refusal by the individual, upon the
ground of constitutional privilege against self-
incrimination, to testify before a congressional
committee regarding charges of his alleged-dis-
loyalty or other misconduct.
(b). The investigation. of persons ontering or:
employed in the competitive service shell
primarily be the responsibility of the Civil
Service Commission, except in cases in which
the head of a department or agency assumes
that responsibility pursuant to law or by agree-
ment with the Commission: The Comraission
shall furnish a full investigative report to the
department or agency.concerned...
(c) The investigation of persons (including
consultants, however employed), entering em-
ployment of, or employed by, the Government
other than in the competitive service shali
primarily be the responsibility of the employing
department or agency. Departments and agen-
cies without investigative facilities may use the
* As amended by Executive Order 10491 of October.13,
1953.
As amended by Executive: Order 11605 of July 2,
1971.
2
FPM Supplement 990-1:
INIMAM 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 5
4
Inst. 127
January 23, 1973.
:
investigative facilities of the il Service Com-
mission, and other departmees and agencies...
may use such facilities under agreement with the
Commission.
(d). There shall be referred promptly to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation all investiga-
tions being conducted by any other agencies
which develop information indicating that an
individual may have been subjected to coercion,
influence, or pressure to act contrary to the
interests of the national security, or information
relating to any of the matters described in sub-
divisions (2) through (8) of subsection (a) of
this section. In cases so referred to it, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall make a
full field investigation.
SEC. 9. (a) There shall be established and
maintained in the Civil Service Commission a
security-investigations index covering all per-
sons as to whom security investigations have
been conducted by any department or agency
of the Government under this order. The cen-
tral index established and maintained by the
Commission under Executive Order No. 9835 of
March 21, 1947. shall be made a part of the secu-
rity-investigations index. The security-investi-
gations index shall contain the name of each per
son investigated. adequate identifying informa
tion, concerning each such person, and a refer-
ence to each department and ageney which has
conducted an investiga.ion concerning the per-
son involved or has suspended or terminated the
employment of such person under the authority
granted to heads of departments and agencies.
by or in accordance with the said act of August
26,1950
(b) The heads of all departments and agen-
cies shall furnish promptly to the Civil Service
Commission information appropriate for the
establishment and maintenance of the security-
investigations index.
(c) The reports and other investigative ma-
terial and information developed by investiga-
tions conducted pursuant to any statute, order,
or program described in section 7 of this order
shall remain the property of the investigative
agencies conducting the investigations, but
As amended by Executive Order 10531 of May 27,
1054.:
:
may, subject to co Nerations of the national
security, be retaine by the department or
agency concerned. Such reports and other
investigative material and information shall be
maintained in confidence, and no access shall be.
given thereto except, with the consent of the.
investigative agency concerned, to other de-
partiments and agencies conducting security
programs under the authority granted by or in
accordance with the said act of August 26, 1950,
as may be required for the efficient conduct of
Government business.
SEC. 10. Nothing in this order shall be con-
strued as eliminating or modifying in any way
the requirement for any investigation or any
determination as to security which may be
required by law.
SEC. 11. On and after the effective date of this
order the Loyalty Re view Board established by
Executive Order No 9835 of March 21, 1947,.
shall not accept agency findings for review, upon
appeal or otherwise. Appeals pending before
the Loyalty Review Board on such date shall be
heard to final determination in accordance with
the provisions of the said Executive Order No.
9835, as amended. Agency determinations
favorable to the officer or employee concerned
pending before the Loyalty Review Board on
such date shall be acted upon by such Board,
and whenever the Board is not in agreement
with such favorable determination the case shall:
be remanded to the department or agency con-
cerned for. determination in accordance with
the standards and procedures established pur-
suant to this order. Cases pending before the
regional loyalty, boards of the Civil Service
Commission on which hearings have not been
initiated on such date shall be referred to the
department or agency concerned. Cases being
heard by regional loyalty boards on such date
shall be heard to conclusion, and the determina-
tion of the board shall be forwarded to the head
of the department or agency concerned: Pro-
vided, that if no specific department or agency
is involved, the case shall be dismissed without
prejudice to the applicant. Investigations pend-
ing in the Federal Bureau of Investigation or...
the Civil Service Commission on such date shall
be completed, and the reports thereon shall be
made to the appropriate department or agency.
:
Inst. 127
January 23,, 1973
NNW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page.6
६
FPM Supplement 990-1
SEC. 12. (A) Eutive Order No. 9835 of
March 21, 1947. as amended is hereby revoked
h) The head of each department and
agency shall be furnished by the Attorney
General with the name of each organization
which shall be or has been heretofore designated...
under this order. Except as specifically pro-
vided hereafter, nothing contained herein shall
be..construed in any way..to affect previous..
designations made pursuant to Executive Order
No. 10450, as amended.
(c) The Subversive Activities Control Board
shall, upon petition of the Attorney General,
conduct appropriate hearings to determine
whether any organization is totalitarian, fascist,
communist, subversive, or whether it has
adopted a policy of unlawfully advocating the
commission of acts of force or violence to deny
others their rights under the Constitution or
laws of the United States or of any State, or
which seeks to overthrow the government of the
United States or any State or subdivision
thereof by unlawful means.
(d) The Board may determine that an organi-
zation has adopted a policy of unlawfully
advocating the commission of acts of force or:
violence to deny others their. constitutional or
statutory rights or that an organization seeks
to overthrow the government of the United
States or any State or subdivision thereof by.
unlawful means if it is found that such group
engages in, unlawfully advocates, or has among
its purposes or objectives, or adopts as a means
of obtaining any of its purposes or objectives.-
(1) The commission of acts of force or
violence or other unlawful acts to deny others
their rights or benefits guaranteed by the
Constitution or laws of the United States or of
the several States or political subdivisions
thereof; or
(2) The unlawful damage or destruction of
property; or injury to persons: or
(3) The overthrow or destruction of the
government of the United States or the
government of any State,. Territory, district,
or possession thereof, or the government of any
political subdivision therein, by unlawful means;
:
or
II-21
(4) Tcommission of acts which violate
laws pertaining to treason, rebellion or insur
rection, riots or civil disorders, seditious con
spiracy, sabotage, trading with the enemy.
obstruction of the recruiting and enlistmen:
service of the United States, impeding. officers
of the United States, or related crimes or
offenses.
:
: (e) The Board may determine an organiza-
* tion to be "totalitarian" if it is found that such
organization engages in activities which seek
by unlawful means the establishment of a
system of government in the United States
which is autocratic and in which control is
centered in a single individual, group, ο
political party, allowing no effective represente-
tion to opposing individuals, groups, or partieş
and providing no practical opportunity for
dissent.
(f) The Board may determine an organiza-
tion to be "fascist" if it is found that organize-
tion engages in activities which seek by unlawful.
means the establishment of a system of govern-
ment in the United States which is character-
ized by rigid one-party dictatorship, forcible
suppression of the opposition, ownership of the
means of production under centralized govern-
menta control and which fosters racism.
(g) The Board may determine an organiza-
tion to be "communist" if it is found that such
organization engages in activities which seek
by unlawful means the establishment of s
government in the United States which is
based upon the revolutionary principles c
Marxism-Leninism, which interprets history
as a relentless class war aimed at the destrictiori"
of the existing society and the establishment of
the dictatorship of the proletariat, the govern-
ment ownership of the means of production
and distribution of property, and the establish-
ment of a single authoritarian party.
(h) The Board may determine an organiza-
tion to be "subversive" if. it is found that such
organization engages in activities which seek
the abolition or destruction by unlawful means
of the government of the United States or any
State, or subdivision thereof...
FPM Supplement 990-1
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 7
Inst. 197
January 23, 1973...
(1) The Board may furtherermine, after
consideration of the evidence, that an organ-
ization has ceased to exist., Upon petition of
the Attorney General or upon petition of any.
organization which has been designated pursu-
ant to this section the Board after appropriate
hearings may determine that such organization
does not currently meet the standards for
designation. The Attorney General shall appro-
priately revise or modify the information ion
furnished to departments and agencies consistant
with the determinations of the Board.
(j) The Board shall issue appropriate regu-
lations for the implementation of this section.
SEC. 13. The Attorney General is requested
to render to the heads of departments and
agencies such advice as may be requisite to
enable them to establish and maintain an
appropriate employee-security program.
SEC. 14. (a) The Civil Service Commission,
with the continuing advice and collaboration
of representatives of such departments and
agencies as the National Security Council may
designate, shall make a continuing study of
the manner in which this order is being imple-
mented by the departments and agencies of the
Government for the purpose of determining:
(1) Deficiencies n the department and
agency security programs established under this-
order which are inconsistent with the interests
of, or directly or indirectly weaken. the national
security.
:
(2) Tendencies in such programs to deny to
individual employees fair, impartial, and equi
table treatment at the hands of the Govern-
ment, or rights under the Constitution and
laws of the United States or this order.
As amended by Executive Order 11605 of July 2,.
1971. NB. Section 706 of the Departments of State,
Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Related
Agencies Appropriation Act, 1973, approved October 25,
1972, Public Law 92-544, provides as follows:
"SEC. 706. No part of the funds appropriated by this
Act shall be available to the Department of Justice
or the Subversive Activities Control Board to carry.
out, execute or implement the provisions of Executive
Order 11605 of July 2, 1971."
Information aſſe ag any department or
agency developed or received during the course
of such continuing study shall be furnished
immediately to the head of the department or
agency concerned. The Civil Service. Com-
mission shall report to the National Security
Council, at least semiannually, on the results of
such study, shall reconfmend means to correct
any such deficiencies or tendencies, and shall
inform the National Security Council immedi-
ately of any deficiency which is deemed to be of
major importance.s
(b) All departments and agencies of the
Government are directed to cooperate with the
Civil Service Commission to facilitate the
accomplishment of the responsibilities assigned
to it by subsection (a) of this section.
(c) To assist the Civil Service Commission
in discharging its responsibilities under this
order, the head of cach department and agency
shall, as soon as possible and in no event later
than ninety days after receipt of the final
investigative report on a civilian officer or
employee subject to a full field investigation
under the provisions of this order, advise the
Commission as to the action taken with respect
to such officer or employee. The information
furnished by the heads of departments and
agencies pursuant to this section shall be
included in the reports which the Civil Service
Commission is required to submit to the
National Security Council in accordance with
subsection (a) of this section. Such reports
shall set forth any deficiencies on the part of the
heads of departments and agencies in taking
timely action under this order, and shall-men-
tion specifically any instances of noncompliance
with this subsection..
:
:
SEC. 15. This order shall become effective
thirty days after the date hereof.
:
:
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 27, 1953.
• As amended by Executive Order 10550 of August 5,
1954.
Inst. 127
January 23, 1973
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 8
FPM Supplement 990-1
:
Security Requirements for Government
Employment
Executive Order 11785. June 4, 1974.
AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10450, AS AMENDED,
RELATING TO SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR GOVERN-
MENT EMPLOYMENT, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Consti-
tution and statutes of the United States, including 5
U.S.C. 1101 et seq., 3301, 3571, 7301, 7313, 7501(c),
7512, 7532, and 7533; and as President of the United
States, and finding such action necessary in the best in-
terests of national security, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Section 12 of Executive Order No. 10450
of April 27, 1953, as amended, is revised to read in its
entirety as follows:
"Sec. 12. Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21,
1947, as amended, is hereby revoked."
SEC. 2. Neither the Attorney General, nor the Sub-
versive Activities Control Board, ner any other agency
shall designate organizations pursuant to section 12 of Ex-
ecutive Order No. 10450, as amended, nor circulate nor
publish a list of organizations previously so designated.
The list of organizations previously designated is hereby
abolished and shall not be used for any purpose..
SEC. 3. Subparagraph (5) of paragraph (a) of section
8 of Executive Order No. 10450, as amended, is revised to
read as follows:
"Knowing membership with the specific intent of fur-
thering the aims of, or adherence to and active participa-
tion in, any foreign or domestic organization, association,
movement, group, or combination of persons (hereinafter
referred to as organizations) which unlawfully advocates
or practices the commission of acts of force or violence to
prevent others from exercising their rights under the Con-
stitution or laws of the United States or of any State, or
which seeks to overthrow the Government of the United
States or any State or subdivision thereof by unlawful
means."
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11605 of July 2, 1971, is..
revoked.
RICHARD NIXON
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 3:05 p.m.,
June 4, 1974]
"Presidential Documents"
Volume 10 Number 23
Pages 572 and 573
June 10, 1974
:
The White House,
June 4, 1974.
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 9
OMINA SUSTITU

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C.
December 5, 1947
**MEMORANDUM FOR MR. HOOVER
DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
This will refer to your memorandum of November 22 with
reference to the Marais Childs column appearing in The Washington
Post on November 18, 1947 and to your letters of November 21, the
one addressed to Mr. Childs and the other addressed to Mr. Paul A.
alker, Acting Chairman, Federal Communications Commission.
It is my view that the Bureau's practice of passing along
to the various Government departments and agencies information
which comes to its attention in connection with the conduct of
investigations normally and regularly within the Bureau's juris-
diction is entirely appropriate and correct. Indeed, it would
appear that the Bureau would be remiss in its duty if it failed
to pass along information coming to it which might prove to be
in the interest of the general welfare. It is not the Bureau's
responsibility to determine whether the information is or is not
of importance to the particular agency in the carrying out of its
current activities and responsibilities and whether or not any
action is taken by the department or agency is not, of course, a
principal concern of the Bureau.
I believe, therefore, that the Bureau should continue its
practice of passing along information which it is believed. might
be of interest to the various departments and agencies. At the
same time I believe that it would be appropriate either (a) to
prepare a circular to the various departments and agencies explain-
ing the Bureau's purpose in furnishing information from time to
time, or (b) to make a particular effort for a time when trans
mitting individual items of information to explain in the trans-
mittal memorandum the Bureau's purpose in. making such transmittal.
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 10
Attorney Gensfal、
:
!
United States Department of Justice
Hederal Bureau of Investigation
Washington 25, D. C.
November 21, 1947
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE No.
Mr. Paul A. Walker
Acting Chairman
Federal Communications Commission
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Walker:
Under date of November 18, 1947, there appeared in the column of
Mr. Marquis Childs in the Washington Post the following statement attributed
to Mr. Clifford J. Durr of the Federal Communications Commission: "Already
the FBI is furnishing to the commission unsolicited reports on individuals
connected with radio, and I can assure you that if you should be told the
kind of things contained in many of these reports you would dismiss the infor-
mation as baseless gossip,"
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has referred to the Federal
Communications Commission from time to time information which it has received
in the course of its regular investigations which appeared pertinent or material
to matters within the jurisdiction of the Commission. It is the policy and
practice of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to avoid any attempts to eval-
uate the significance of information relating to matters without its juris-
diction or the effect of such information upon the contemporary policies and
programs of other agencies. As a result, the Bureau furnishes to the various
Government departments such information as it receives which appears pertinent
to the operations of those Government departments. In so far as is practicable,
the Bureau attempts to evaluate the reliability of the source of this infor-
mation. without attempting to make any suggestions as to the use which should.
For should not be made of the information itself.
:
Mr. Childs, in his column quoting Mr. Durr's statement, adds the
following observation upon Mr. Durr's statement: "Note the word 'unsolicited'.
It indicates that the FBI initiated investigations and sought to influence
FCC decisions by sending reports on certain individuals to the commission.
If this is happening, it is something Congress should know about."
I desire to advise you that this Bureau has not at any time attempted
in any manner or degree to influence FCC decisions. The material which has
been transmitted to the Commission was sent solely for the purpose of affording.......
the Commission information which came to the Bureau from various sources; which
information, it was believed, might be of interest to the official activities.
of the Commission
.:
NW 88326 Docld:32989603 Page 11
In the light of the statements made by Mr. Durr and since these
statements have not been repudiated by any other members of the Federal
Communications Commsssion, I must assume that the material which the Bureau
has been fwnishing to the Commission is not desired by the Commission. I
am consequently discontinuing the transmittal of such data to the Commission
upon the assumption that the material is of no interest to the Commission.
Very truly yours,
John Edgar Hoover
Director
NW 88326 DocId:32989603 Page 12
-2-
LLE ARTREAT JI
TO THE BEADS OF