124-10185-10099
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director/Comptroller
VIA
: Acting Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT
: Agency Support to the U.S. Secret Service
(USSS) for National Democratic (10-14 July
1972) and National Republican (21-24 August
1972) Conventions

1. This memorandum is for the information of the Executive
Director/Comptroller.

2. Authorization for CIA support to the U.S. Secret Service
for the Democratic and Republican National Conventions is con-
tained in a memorandum of 7 April 1972 from Chief, CI Staff to
the CCI which was concurred in by the ADDP and approved by the
DCI on 10 April 1972 (copy attached).

3. On 13 April 1972 the met with the Miami
USSS representative and ir. Nastro Mastrovito of USSS Feadquarters to
discuss preliminary planning for Station /liani support to the
USSS prior to and during subject Conventions. in 17 Anril 1972
tho C/M/COC and C/CI/LS: Ret with 'r. Bastrovito at Headquarters
to Implement the preliminary planning agreed upon in Miami and
to determine the extent of Headquarters support required by the
USSS.

4. The basic agreement cutually concurred in by the USSS
and licadquarters representatives provided that:

a. Station W!!/Miami would conduct name traces on
all Cubans of interest to the USSS,

b. CIA Headquarters would conduct name traces on
all other foreign born persons of interest to the USSS.

c. CIA would keen the USSS informed of any events
in the Caribbean and Latin American areas that would
have any bearing on the USSS protective mission during
the convention periods. This would include briefings
on Cuba and Cuban policies toward the United States and
on activities of Cuban intelligence operations which
could affect the security of the conventions.

2-

d. Coverage of Latin American exile groups in the
United States would be the responsibility of the FRI
since CIA had ceased the extensive coverage formerly
targeted against these groups since it was now considered
an internal security function.

S. On 27 April 1972 a meeting was held at a buffer office
of Station Miani with the USSS Chief of Communica-
It
tions, Station personnel and a fleadquarters representative.
was-agreed that name traces would be handled by Siami security
field office courier from the LSSS to mifer office until the USSS
ostablished communications links from their command post in
convention center, at which time trace requests would be sent
from the command post to USSS headquarters and relayed to CLA
Headquarters. Cuban name traces are relayed to Station All/iami
by the Signal Center and non-Cuban traces are conjucted by /COS
Replies to USSS requests on non-Cuisans are coordinated with
(CI/SO. JPK(1)(B)

(Station Mi/Miami has arranged the rental of a safehouse
about five minutes from convention center which will provide a
secure and nearby meeting site for SSS and Agency persoanel,
This safehouse will be available just prior to and during both JFK
conventions. Headquarters officer will TOY to Viami prior to COLBY
the conventions and remain until the conventions adjourn to
assist the Station in providing the support descrived in paragraph
four above.

7. [Station Miami is in daily contact with the SSS in
Niani, utilizing buffer office as a meeting site when necessary.
Location of Station WH/Ciani
The
as not been revealed to
the USSS. (Station is located some distance from buffer office.)
Additionally, the Miani Security Field office maintains
liaison with the local USSS Miani unit.

• 8. The Station understands that no personnel will be present
at the convention hall, that they will not provide any equipment
unique to the Agency, nor will it provide the use of any other
facilities other than the safehouse described in paragraph six.

SECRET

May 1973
SUBJECT: Request for Information on Sensitive Activities
:
You will recall that in Fiscal Years 1971 and 1972,
I believe, Agency funds were made available to the FBI.
These funds may still be possibly held in a special
account for that use. This is one of the areas where
TSD has been very much involved. Chuck Briggs would
have the details as this was handled through the Executive
Director's office and of course Angleton would have
additional information.
:
Signed
IBN-1:
Chief
Missions and Programs Staff

EYES OILY
SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 357737
8 May 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT
: Areas of Possible Embarrassment
to the Agency

1. Sometime in the spring or early summer of 1971, Mr. John
Dean levied the requirement on the Agency for information relating to
the Investors Overseas Service (IOS). The original request was
non-specific but it gradually emerged that Dean was concerned with
the possible adverse publicity that might develop regarding the
President's nephew, who was employed by IOS.

2. There were multiple channels from the White House to the
Agency on this subject:

a, Presumably Haldeman and/or Ehrlichman to Director
Helms.

b. Someone (unnamed) in the White House to the DDCI,
General Cushman (see attached telephone conversation).
Note that Ehrlichman is mentioned, and

c. John Dean to the CI Staff. These various channels
were sorted out in time and six reports were passed by
the CI Staff to Mr. Fred Fielding for Mr. John Dean.

3. The telephone call of General Cushman's is of interest since
it gives the flavor of White House concern. It took several days to
uncover the fact that the White House interest centered on the involve-
ment of the President's nephew with IOS and possible adverse publicity.
The reports submitted to Dean's office were routine in nature and were
coordinated with the DCI. After a few months, interest in this sub-
ject died down and we did not pursue it further.
:..
'.
:
4. Please return the attachments when they have served your
purpose.
:
SECRET

5. I also include a short note on the Intelligence Evaluation
Committee and Staff prepared by Richard Ober. The original
meetings were held in the office of John Dean at the White House
and the principal sparkplug for this group activity was the then
Assistant Attorney General for Internal Security, Robert Mardian
and then later his assistant, William Olsen. It is noted that Mr.
Mardian is now appearing before the Grand Jury and it is always
possible that he might draw in the Agency.

6. Before appointing (Ober) to the ICES Staff as the Agency
representative, I had attended various inter-agency meetings pre-
sided over by Mardian. I expressed the view to Director Helms
that Mardian would require very careful handling due to his inex-
perience. Furthermore, Mardian was deeply involved in the split
between Bill Sullivan and Mr. Hoover. On a confidential basis
one or two senior FBI officials stated that Sullivan was secretly
passing files to Mardian without Mr. Hoover's permission. This
was one of the important reasons why Sullivan was dismissed from
the Bureau.
:

Attachments (5)

[sic]
James Angleton
Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT
: Counter Intelligence Staff,
Police Group Activities JFK()(B)
..

1. Counter Intelligence Staff, Police Group (CPG)
is responsible for Staff coordination within the Office
of the Deputy Director for Operations for activities and
programs involving assistance to foreion molice/security JFK(1)(B)..
forces for the purpose of exploiting such activities and
programs for intelligence purposes.

2. CIPC maintains liaison with the office of Public
Safety, Arency for International Persion:ent (GPS/7)
and its training facility, the International Police Academy
(IP). CICOalso administers and supervises Project
IDEN-171- and its training proprietory facility, DEN-172.
LDEN-168 In addition, CILPG coordinates a joint CPS/ATO Technical
Services Division, Contral Intelligence Agency (TS/CIA)
JFK()()tomolicc/security functions and activities. Specific
Technical Investigations Course.1 CIPG provides guidance
and counsel to the Area Divisions in matters pertaining
details of these functions are as follows:

LIAISON WITH OPS/AID

CIPG liaison with OPS/AID and IPA is conducted on a
daily basis and consists principally of:

A. exchange of information on IPA participants, some
of whom later attend IDEN-172 courses and who are
of interest to Agency components,

B. arranging for inclusion of Agency sponsored partici-
pants in IPA/CPS/AMD training programs,

C. arranging for IPA/OPS/MIN briefings and tours for
foreign police/security representatives sponsored
by CIA Area Divisions,]

2

D. obtaining biographic and assessment data.on
IPA/OPS/AID trainces,.

E. providing general information pertaining to
police/security organizations, activities, equip-
ment, and personalities requested by Agency
operating components,

• F. coordinating the Agency's participation in the
Technical Investigations Course designed to
familiarize the trainees with the technique
required to properly investigate terrorist
activities wherein explosives have been utilized,

Gobtaining OPS/AID Cover for CIA personnel to serve
abroad. At one time as many as 50 CIA employees
were covered in Latin America, the Far East and
Africa. This total has been reduced during the
past several years to 10 serving in Thailand,
(1)(B)

II. arranging contact between Desk officers and OPS/AIDה
sponsored participants.

PROJECT IDEN-171 PROPRIETARY IDEN-172- training function of
IDEN-168

IDEN-172 Training Academy is a commercial interprise.
It was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maryland
in 1952 and conducts its business in the District of
Colombia. It is engaged principally in training foreign
police/security personnel under an overt contract with
OPS/AID, and selling police/security equipment to forcion
police/security personnel and organizations.IDEN-172 also
provides special training programs and briefings to
foreign police/security personnel of interest to Agency
operating divisions. It provides biographic and assessment
data on trainees to country desks. RecentlyIDEN-172 has
acquired the capability of providing training to foreign
(1)(6) personnel in VIP protective security
for Chiefs of State.

* CIA personnel under this cover will not be replaced as
such and all will be phased out by June 1974.

JPK

sells prie
Consui
Servi:

3

COMMENT
:
.CILPG does not maintain direct contact or liaison
with any law enforcement organization, local or federal,
at home or abroad. When the need arises, such contact is
, sometimes made on our behalf by OPS/AID or DEN-172 without
divulging Agency interest OPS/AIDS has such contacts
at home and abroad because of the nature of its activities
(training of forcion notice/security personnel at home
and abroad), and its Public Safety programs around the
world. IDEN-172 has such contacts at horre local and
federal level because its personnel are personally
acquainted with law enforcement officers throughout the
United States. Members of the (DEN-172 staff (not identified)
as CIA) have appeared as guest lecturers at such federal
institutions as the U.S. Park Police, IPA, the U.S.
Secret Service, and the U.S. Treasury Enforcement Division.

3. In.addition to the liaison mentioned in the
previous paragraph, the Agency maintains liaison in varying
degrees with foreign police/security organizations through
its field stations. The existence and extent thereof,
however, is a decision to be made by the Area Civision,
and is not the responsibility of CI/PG.

4. The CIA station as a member of the Country Team in
Montevideo, Uruguay, may have had some content an
Mitrione, who was murdered by the Tupamaros. Dan Citrione,
an experienced and respected law enforcement officer, was
a bona fide OPS/AMD officer assigned to the AID mission
in Uruguay, and was never a CIA employee or agent.

James Engleton
Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff
:

SENSITIVE
May 7.3

SUBJECT: The MHCHAOS Program
:
:
1. The MHCHAOS program is a worldwide program for
clandestine collection abroad of information on foreign
efforts to support/encourage/exploit/manipulate domestic
U.S. extremism, especially by Cuba, Communist China,
North Vietnam, the Soviet Union, North Korea and the
Arab fedayeen.

2. The MHCHAOS program has not and is not conduct-
ing efforts domestically for internal domestic collection
purposes. Agency efforts are foreign. Foreign-oriented
activity in the United States has been of two types:
}
a. Selected FBI domestic sources who travel
abroad in connection with their extremist activity
and/or affiliations to make contact with hostile
foreign powers or with foreign extremist groups
have been briefed and debriefed by Headquarters
officers. The briefing has included appropriate
operational guidance, including defensive advice.

b. Americans with existing extremist creden-
tials have been assessed, recruited, tested and
dispatched abroad for PCS assignments as contract
agents, primarily sources offered for such use by
the FEI. When abroad they collect information re-
sponsive to MICILAOS program requirements, as well
as other Agency requirements. They are thus used
primarily for targeting against Cubans, Chinese Com-
munists, the North Vietnamese, etc., as their back-
ground and their particular access permits. It
should be noted that the MPTROIKA aspect of the
MPLODESTAR project of the East Asia Division is
similar to the MICHAOS PROGRAM.

3. As indicated earlier, MHCHAOS is a foreign pro-
gram, conducted overseas, except for the limited activity
described above. The program is and has been managed so
as to achieve the maximum feasible utilization of exist-
ing resources of the Operations Directorate. No assets

WAKGTIG BIG
SENSITIVL PAILURE SOURCES
SVED

SENSITIVE
SECRET

SECRET,
CORPORATE COVER

1. Central Cover Staff (CCS) is responsible for the
placement of Agency operational personnel under the cover
of bona fide U.S. companies abroad and in the U.S. This
process involves the selection of companies; research on
their locations and key personnel; clearances; contacts
with companies to solicit cooperation with the Agency;
arrangements for integration of Agency personnel into the
companies, including letters of understanding; funding of
salarios, allowances and expenses; and, continuous monitor-
ing of each integrated case throughout the course of the
cover use. The overall objective is to match the individual
being placed, the company, and the location, in a manner
that will ensure achievement of the Agency purpose and pro-
tection of the company integrity.

2. Currently, there are 191 integrees for whom cover
is provided by 140 companies; 179 integrees are located in
47 foreign countries and 12 are located in the United States.
To maintain this placement level, CCS personnel are re-
searching and monitoring approximately 250 to 300 companies
at any given time.

3. To minimize the adverse consequences to a cooperating
company, and to preserve the Agency's operational equity in
the event of exposure of an individual under cover, it has
been established policy that no more than two individuals
would be furnished cover by the same company. At the present
time this ratio is confined to approximately 25% of the total
number of companies now being used and efforts are under
way to effect further reductions toward the goal of one
individual per company.

4. In addition to the primary corporate cover function
described in paragraph 1. above, CCS maintains continuing
contact with two U.S. car rental firms and two U.S. credit
card firms for the purpose of obtaining backstopped credit
cards in alias for operational use in the United States and
abroad by Agency personnel. 42 such cards are now being
used by 34 individuals.

SECRET,